# Page 1


View
Online 
Export
Citation
RESEARCH ARTICLE |  MAGNETISM AND MAGNETIC MATERIALS |  DECEMBER 20 2016
Identification of the low-energy excitations in a quantum
critical system
Tom Heitmann 
 ; Jagat Lamsal; Shannon Watson; Ross Erwin; Wangchun Chen; Yang Zhao;
Wouter Montfrooij
AIP Advances 7, 055701 (2017)
https://doi.org/10.1063/1.4972802
Articles You May Be Interested In
Magnetic ordering in the spinel compound Li [ Mn 2 − x Li x ] O 4 ( x = , 0.04 )
J. Appl. Phys. (March 2009)
Are there superspin glasses?
J. Appl. Phys. (April 2011)
Influence of the temperature on the opto-acoustophoretic effect
J. Acoust. Soc. Am. (January 2021)
 27 June 2025 19:54:13


---
# Page 2

AIP ADVANCES 7, 055701 (2017)
Identiﬁcation of the low-energy excitations in a quantum
critical system
Tom Heitmann,1 Jagat Lamsal,1 Shannon Watson,2 Ross Erwin,2
Wangchun Chen,2,a Yang Zhao,2,a and Wouter Montfrooij3,b
1Missouri Research Reactor, University of Missouri, Columbia, Missouri 65211, USA
2National Institute of Standards and Technology, Gaithersburg, Maryland 20899, USA
3Department of Physics, University of Missouri, Columbia, Missouri 65211, USA
(Presented 1 November 2016; received 21 September 2016; accepted 5 October 2016;
published online 20 December 2016)
We have identiﬁed low-energy magnetic excitations in a doped quantum criti-
cal system by means of polarized neutron scattering experiments. The presence
of these excitations could explain why Ce(Fe0.76Ru0.24)2Ge2 displays dynami-
cal scaling in the absence of local critical behavior or long-range spin-density
wave criticality. The low-energy excitations are associated with the reorientations
of the superspins of fully ordered, isolated magnetic clusters that form spon-
taneously upon lowering the temperature. The system houses both frozen clus-
ters and dynamic clusters, as predicted by Hoyos and Vojta [Phys. Rev. B 74,
140401(R) (2006)]. © 2016 Author(s). All article content, except where other-
wise noted, is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution (CC BY) license
(http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/). [http://dx.doi.org/10.1063/1.4972802]
I. INTRODUCTION
Quantum critical systems are systems that exhibit a competition between the tendency for mag-
netic moments to order upon cooling and the tendency of those moments to be shielded by the
conduction electrons through the Kondo shielding mechanism. Through the application of hydro-
static pressure or chemical pressure (doping), the phase transition to a long-range ordered state can
be suppressed to zero Kelvin; when this happens, such systems have been observed to display non-
Fermi liquid behavior over a range of temperatures,1 and some such systems display dynamical
scaling. When a quantum critical system displays dynamical scaling, then the response is no longer
a function of the energy E transferred to the system at temperature T, but of the ratio E/T only.
This scaling was ﬁrst observed in UCu4Pd,2 and has later been identiﬁed in other quantum critical
systems,1,3,4 also as a function of applied magnetic ﬁeld3 (H/T-scaling).
In order for a system to display dynamical scaling, low-energy degrees of freedom must be
available for excitations to couple to and relax back to equilibrium. If this is the case, then the
E/T-scaling is similar to the emergence of scaling behavior in high-energy physics where we also
have the situation that T ≫E. The heavily doped quantum critical system Ce(Fe0.76Ru0.24)2Ge2
represents a very interesting case in the sense that this system displays E/T-scaling,4 but two plau-
sible scenarios5–7 for the origin of low-energy excitations have been ruled out. Experiments on
poly-crystalline Ce(Fe0.76Ru0.24)2Ge2 have already shown4 that there is no divergence of the local
susceptibility in this system (that would reﬂect the emergence of local moments at the expense of
Kondo shielded moments3,5), and that the dynamic susceptibility has an energy dependence that
cannot be described by Lorentzian lineshapes, excluding a scenario6,7 where the dynamical scaling is
ascribed to ﬂuctuations associated with a transition to a long-range spin-density wave (SDW) ordered
state.
aAlso at Department of Materials Science and Engineering, University of Maryland, College Park, MD, USA.
bElectronic mail: montfrooijw@missouri.edu.
2158-3226/2017/7(5)/055701/5
7, 055701-1
© Author(s) 2016
 27 June 2025 19:54:13


---
# Page 3

055701-2
Heitmann et al.
AIP Advances 7, 055701 (2017)
A solution to this observed E/T-scaling conundrum could be the presence of clusters.
Ce(Fe0.76Ru0.24)2Ge2 has been shown4 to form isolated, magnetically ordered clusters upon cooling
down. When the temperature is lowered, the magnetic moments on the Ce ions get shielded by the
conduction electrons through the Kondo shielding mechanism. However, since the system has one Ru
ion for every three Fe ions (randomly distributed), the ensuing distribution in interionic distances has
been shown to result in a distribution of Kondo shielding temperatures. As a result, some moments
get shielded before others, and the system displays percolative behavior8 upon cooling. The clusters
that peel of the lattice spanning, inﬁnite cluster are subject to quantum mechanical ﬁnite-size effects;9
as a result, the moments of the ions that constitute the cluster align with their neighbors, giving rise
to fully ordered magnetic clusters with Ising symmetry. The superspin of such a cluster is free to
pick a direction along the positive or negative z-direction (c-axis). As such, these clusters have one
degree of freedom left, namely the direction of the superspin along the Ising axis. Reorientations of
the superspin could provide the sought-after low-energy excitations that this system must be capable
of in order to explain the observed E/T-scaling behavior.
The formation of these isolated clusters has been observed directly by means of neutron scattering
experiments,10 and the unusual behavior of the low temperature speciﬁc heat was shown11 to be
consistent with the entropy shedding expected for clusters becoming isolated and forced to order
magnetically. Monte Carlo computer simulations for the relevant percolative system9,12 have shown
that the emergence of magnetic clusters should play a dominant role in the low temperature behavior of
heavily-doped quantum critical systems, while a comparison to a purely classical system13 that houses
magnetic clusters has demonstrated that the observed dynamical scaling in quantum critical systems
is likely to be the consequence of the presence of isolated clusters. In this paper, we demonstrate
that superspin reorientations of isolated clusters do indeed occur in Ce(Fe0.76Ru0.24)2Ge2, and that
their ﬂipping rates are qualitatively given by the predictions of Hoyos and Vojta14 for isolated Ising
clusters of varying sizes.
II. RESULTS AND DISCUSSION
The predicted14 dynamic behavior of isolated clusters in an Ising system with dissipation depends
on the size of the clusters: the rate at which the superspin of a cluster can ﬂip depends on the size of
the cluster, and above a critical cluster size the spins are frozen in. We argue that quantum critical
Ce(Fe0.76Ru0.24)2Ge2 is such a system.
In order to demonstrate the simultaneous presence of frozen as well as dynamic clusters in
Ce(Fe0.76Ru0.24)2Ge2, we have performed new inelastic neutron scattering experiments using the BT7
triple axis spectrometer at NIST in full polarization mode; we combine these data with previously
published data where spectra were collected on the same crystal using the HB3 spectrometer at HFIR,
and the DCS spectrometer at NIST. BT7 was operated15 using neutrons with ﬁxed ﬁnal energy of
14.7 meV, allowing for the removal of higher order neutrons by means of PG-ﬁlters in the scattered
beam. 3He polarizers were utilized in the incident and scattered beam. The time-dependence of these
polarizers was well characterized during the course of the 5 day experiment on BT7, allowing for a
full separation between the spin-ﬂip and non-ﬂip signals using the technology and software developed
at NIST. All polarized scattering experiments were set up with neutron polarization direction parallel
to the direction of momentum transfer so that only the magnetic scattering would show up in the
spin-ﬂip channel. We show characteristic data in Fig. 1. The errorbars in all our ﬁgures represent plus
or minus one standard deviation.
The observance of frozen clusters is straightforward, and has already been reported on: previous
DCS experiments10 showed that the additional scattering that developed below 1 K at the ordering
wave vector Qord= (0,0,0.45) was resolution limited, implying that the cluster reorientation frequency
had to be longer than 80 ps, thereby identifying these clusters as frozen and verifying one part of the
prediction of Ref. 14.
In order to interpret the scattering associated with the reorientations of the superspins of the
isolated clusters, we need to demonstrate that the observed quasi-elastic scattering is magnetic in
origin; this is shown in Fig. 1. Second, we need to show that the reorientation rate of smaller clusters
is higher than that of larger clusters.
 27 June 2025 19:54:13


---
# Page 4

055701-3
Heitmann et al.
AIP Advances 7, 055701 (2017)
FIG. 1. a) The top panel displays polarized scattering data measured along [1,1,l] in reciprocal lattice units (rlu) for energy
transfer E= 2.5 meV, corresponding to excitations with wave number 2πl/c, with c the length of the c-axis. Both the ﬂipper
on (magnetic, top two sets) and ﬂipper off (nuclear, bottom two data sets) are shown for T= 1.56 K and 50 K (circles: 1.56 K,
magnetic; squares: 50 K, magnetic; stars: 1.56 K nuclear; diamonds: 50 K nuclear). The magnetic data shows that there is
broad scattering present at 50 K, and that this scattering increases upon cooling to 5 K over a broad l-range. The feature at
l= 0.65 is a spurion. b) The bottom panel displays the magnetic, ﬂipper on data for E= 1.25 meV. The increase in scattering
between 50 K (diamonds) and 1.56 K (circles) occurs over a broad l-range centered around l= 0.45. The width of the additional
scattering is about twice the width of the additional scattering observed at E= 0 meV (errorbars with solid line through the
points). The elastic data have been divided by a factor of 5 for plotting clarity. All lines in both panels are guides to the eye.
Our task is facilitated by the fact that once clusters form upon cooling in Ce(Fe0.76Ru0.24)2Ge2,
these clusters persist upon further cooling.10,12 That is, once a cluster has formed and been forced to
order through ﬁnite size effects, then this cluster is no longer subject to Kondo screening. As a result,
by doing temperature dependent studies, we can ﬁrst observe the dynamics of the smallest clusters at
the higher temperatures. Then, upon further cooling, we observe the dynamics of larger clusters as
additional scattering on top of the scattering due to the smaller clusters. We show in Fig. 2 that this
behavior can also be observed in quasi-elastic scattering by polycrystals.
For emerging clusters that persist down to the lowest T while still ﬂuctuating, we expect to
observe the following. On cooling, we should see the scattered intensity increase in the vicinity of
Qord, with the intensity at lower T exceeding that at higher T for all energy and momentum transfers
in the vicinity of Qord. Thus, any new intensity should appear on top of the intensity already present
for the case where smaller clusters survive further cooling and keep their reorientation capabilities.
In addition, the new intensity should correspond to larger clusters, which corresponds to a sharper
signal in momentum space. This intensity should also have a smaller characteristic energy width,
reﬂecting the lower ﬂipping rate of the larger clusters. We have observed all this.
The data in Fig. 2 shows that, on cooling, the additional intensity appears on top of the exist-
ing intensity, with a decreasing characteristic energy-width. We have veriﬁed this on BT7 for
|E| > 1 meV (where resolution effects do not hamper the interpretation) for our single crystal. Since
these data do not add to Fig. 2, we show them elsewhere. In addition, it had already been shown that
the elastic scattering around Qord followed a similar pattern:10 on cooling, additional scattering was
observed9 to appear on top of the intensity already present, and this additional scattering was nar-
rower in momentum transfer, reﬂecting the formation of larger clusters without affecting the clusters
already present.
 27 June 2025 19:54:13


---
# Page 5

055701-4
Heitmann et al.
AIP Advances 7, 055701 (2017)
FIG. 2. Shown are quasi-elastic neutron scattering data on polycrystalline Ce(Fe0.76Ru0.24)2Ge2 at |Qord| = 3 nm-1, demon-
strating the emergence of magnetic clusters. These data (replotted from Ref. 4) were taken on the IN6 spectrometer at the ILL.
The energy resolution of the spectrometer is 0.07 meV. Upon cooling from 100 K to 2 K magnetic correlations are seen to
develop in the imaginary part of the dynamic susceptibility χ"(q,E) with the values at any given T exceeding those at higher T.
There is no sign of intensity migrating from the higher energies to lower ones, as emphasized by the tail of the data shown
on an expanded vertical scale. Thus, the clusters present at the high T persist down to the lowest T, and that the additional
scattering is due to newly minted clusters that peel off the inﬁnite cluster upon cooling. Note that the data at 4.4 K and 1.8 K
mostly differ in the region |E | < 0.2 meV, implying that very close to the quantum critical point the inﬁnite cluster is rapidly
breaking apart, but still spawning ﬂuctuating clusters. All lines are guides to the eye. For plotting clarity, only one in every
three errorbars has been plotted in the main ﬁgure, and only every second errorbar in the inset.
The data in Fig. 1b is a good demonstration of the above. When measuring at constant energy
transfer (E= 0 and 1.25 meV), we see that the data at E= 1.25 meV are wider than the elastic data.
This is exactly as expected for a system that sees smaller, fast-ﬂuctuating clusters emerge at higher T,
but predominantly slower, larger ones at low T. When this happens, the intensity for E ≳1/∆t (with
∆t the ﬂipping rate of a large superspin) stops evolving on further cooling and its quasi-elastic width
reﬂects the width at the temperature below which predominantly larger clusters emerge. E.g., the
larger clusters that emerge at the lowest T ﬂuctuate so slowly that they do not add to the intensity
at E= 1.25 meV. As a result, while the width in momentum transfer narrows upon cooling for the
elastic channel, the width at E= 1.25 meV remains unchanged, reﬂecting the (persisting) presence of
the smaller clusters. For reference, the width at 1.25 meV corresponds to the elastic width at ∼4 K.10
Note that ’normal’ critical scattering does not exhibit this (Fig. 1b) behavior.
Thus, smaller clusters exhibit a higher reorientation rate than larger clusters, as predicted the-
oretically.14 However, the superspin of larger clusters can still ﬂip, as witnessed in the temperature
dependence of the scattering at lower energy transfers (and clearly visible (for E > 0.1 meV)
in the high-resolution polycrystalline data shown in Fig. 2). Combining this with the emergence
of resolution-limited magnetic intensity that emerges at the very lowest T on the high-resolution
spectrometer DCS,10 we conclude that Ce(Fe0.76Ru0.24)2Ge2 houses both frozen and dynamic clus-
ters, and that the reorientation rate of the dynamic clusters depends on the size of the magnetic
clusters.
In summary, we have shown that isolated, ordered clusters emerge, upon cooling, in a strongly
doped quantum critical system. These clusters can be frozen as well as dynamic, and the degree of
freedom associated with the reorientation of the superspin of the dynamic clusters persists down to the
lowest temperatures, providing the system with a readily accessible branch of low-energy excitations.
This branch is likely the reason behind the observed but unexplained5–7 E/T-scaling.
1 G. R. Stewart, Rev. Mod. Phys. 73, 797 (2001); 78, 743 (2006).
2 M. C. Aronson et al., Phys. Rev. Lett. 75, 725 (1995).
 27 June 2025 19:54:13


---
# Page 6

055701-5
Heitmann et al.
AIP Advances 7, 055701 (2017)
3 A. Schr¨oder et al., Nature (London) 407, 351 (2000).
4 W. Montfrooij et al., Phys. Rev. Lett. 91, 087202 (2003).
5 Q. Si et al., Nature (London) 413, 804 (2001).
6 J. A. Hertz, Phys. Rev. B 14, 1165 (1976).
7 A. J. Millis, Phys. Rev. B 48, 7183 (1993).
8 D. Stauffer and A. Aharony, Introduction to Percolation Theory (CRC, Boca Raton, FL, 1994).
9 T. Heitmann et al., J. of Physics conference series 391, 012018 (2012).
10 W. Montfrooij et al., Phys. Rev. B 76, 052404 (2007).
11 J. Gaddy et al., J. Appl. Phys. 115, 17E110 (2014).
12 T. Heitmann et al., J. of Mod. Phys. 5, 649 (2014).
13 T. Heitmann et al., Phys. Rev. B 81, 014411 (2010).
14 J. A. Hoyos and T. Vojta, Phys. Rev. B 74, 140401(R) (2006).
15 W. C. Chenit et al., Physica B 397, 168 (2007).
 27 June 2025 19:54:13


---
