# Page 1

A pathway to optimize the properties of magnetocaloric
Mn2-xFexP1-yGey for magnetic refrigeration
D.M. Liu a, b, *, Z.L. Zhang a, S.L. Zhou b, Q.Z. Huang c, X.J. Deng a, M. Yue b, C.X. Liu a,
J.X. Zhang b, J.W. Lynn c
a Beijing Key Lab of Microstructure and Property of Advanced Material, Institute of Microstructure and Property of Advanced Materials, Beijing University of
Technology, Beijing, 100124, China
b Key Laboratory of Advanced Functional Materials, Education Ministry of China, Beijing University of Technology, Beijing, 100124, China
c NIST Center for Neutron Research, National Institute of Standards and Technology, Gaithersburg, MD, 20899, USA
a r t i c l e
i n f o
Article history:
Received 16 October 2015
Received in revised form
7 January 2016
Accepted 8 January 2016
Available online 11 January 2016
Keywords:
Magnetocaloric effect
MnFePGe compound
First-order transition
Neutron diffraction
a b s t r a c t
Magnetocaloric materials can be useful in magnetic refrigeration applications, but to be practical the
magneto-refrigerant needs to have a very large magnetocaloric effect (MCE) near room temperature for
modest applied ﬁelds (<2 T) with small hysteresis and magnetostriction, and should have a complete
magnetic transition, and environmentally friendly. One system that may fulﬁll these requirements is
Mn2-xFexP1-yGey, where a combined ﬁrst-order structural and magnetic transition occurs between the
high temperature paramagnetic and low temperature ferromagnetic phase. We have used neutron
diffraction, differential scanning calorimetry, and magnetization measurements to study the effects of
Mn and Ge location in the structure on the ordered magnetic moment, MCE, and hysteresis for a series of
compositions of the system near optimal doping. The diffraction results indicate that the Mn ions located
on the 3f site enhance the desirable properties, while those located on the 3 g sites are detrimental. The
phase fraction that transforms, hysteresis of the transition, and entropy change can be affected greatly by
both the compositional homogeneity and the particle size, and an annealing procedure has been
developed that substantially improves the performance of all three properties of the material. We also
establish a correlation between applied magnetic ﬁeld to complete the transition and the temperature
range of coexistence of the PM and FM phase. On the basis of these results we have identiﬁed a pathway
to understand the nature and to optimize the MCE properties of this system for magnetic refrigeration
applications.
© 2016 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
1. Introduction
Magnetic refrigeration based on the magnetocaloric effect
(MCE) has attracted recent interest as a potential replacement for
the classical vapor compression systems in use today, especially for
the use at room temperature (RT) [1e5]. For a transition that is
purely magnetic in origin, which is typically a second order
(continuous) in nature, the MCE is insufﬁciently high to improve
the refrigeration efﬁciency. To increase the entropy change at the
phase transition, systems with concomitant magnetic and struc-
tural transitions, which are ﬁrst order (discontinuous), can greatly
increase the MCE, but at the cost of hysteresis and transitions that
are phase-incomplete. To be considered for practical application at
room temperature in magnetocaloric refrigeration the ﬁrst-order
transition must have: (i) a large entropy change DS associated
with the transition from a disordered to a ordered magnetic
structure; (ii) a transition occurring near room temperature, (iii) a
small hysteresis DThys; (iv) a low applied magnetic ﬁeld DB to
induce the transition; v) a small temperature/applied magnetic
ﬁeld range of coexistence of the ordered and disordered phases;
(vi) and a complete magnetic transition, i.e. there should be no, or
very small, residual untransformed material when the process is
completed.
The choice of the materials studied so far has been made mainly
on the basis of the magnitude of the entropy change. Some ex-
amples of materials with the giant magnetocaloric effect with
transitions
near
room
temperature
are
Gd5Si2Ge2
[6],
* Corresponding author. Institute of Microstructure and Property of Advanced
Materials, Beijing University of Technology, Beijing, 100124, China.
E-mail address: dmliu@bjut.edu.cn (D.M. Liu).
Contents lists available at ScienceDirect
Journal of Alloys and Compounds
journal homepage: http://www.elsevier.com/locate/jalcom
http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.jallcom.2016.01.074
0925-8388/© 2016 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Journal of Alloys and Compounds 666 (2016) 108e117


---
# Page 2

MnFeP0.45As0.55 [7], LaFe13-xSix [8], MnAs [9], (La0.8-yCa0.2)MnO3 for
0.03  y  0.1 [10], and Ni2MnGa [11]. In addition, for low tem-
perature magnetic refrigeration rare earth based intermetallic
compounds such as TmCuAl [12], the RT2X2 series like NdMn2-
xTixSi2(0  x  0.3) [13], HfFe6Ge6-type intermetallics like YMn6Sn6-
xTix [14], can be important. All of these materials undergo a ﬁrst-
order transition at TC, and display some common properties such
as hysteresis, particle size effects, and coexistence of the two phases
near TC. Typically detailed crystallographic studies of the structures
as a function of temperature and magnetic ﬁeld have not been
undertaken, including the temperature/applied ﬁeld range of
coexistence of the two phases, particle size and about the
completeness of the transition. We have found that such crystal-
lographic details can provide important information about the
systems and how to optimize their properties.
The Mn2-xFexP1-yGey material is one such system with a com-
bined structural and magnetic transition from the paramagnetic
(PM) to ferromagnetic (FM) state. Compared with the pure metal
Gd, it has a large entropy change; besides it has no use of expensive
or toxic elements such as Gd in Gd5(SixGe1-x)4 and As in Mn2-xFexP1-
yAsy [15e17]. Trung et al. [18] reported a comprehensive study for a
variety of compositions in the Mn2-xFexP1-yGey system and found
that the thermal hysteresis can be tunable. They also showed that
the value of the Curie temperature (TC) increases when the Ge
content increases and decreases when the Mn content increases.
Leit~ao et al. reported [19] that the TC of the Fe rich side of the
(Mn,Fe)2(P,Ge) system is easy to tune with careful manipulation of
Fe and Ge content, but the ferroeparamagnetic transition sharp-
ness is adversely affected. In our previous work [20e23] the crystal
and magnetic structures for the compound with composition
Mn1.1Fe0.9P0.8Ge0.2 and Mn1.1Fe0.9P0.76Ge0.24 were determined by
neutron powder diffraction (NPD), while the crystal structure for
Mn1.2Fe0.9P0.76Ge0.24 was determined by XRD [24]. These com-
pounds have the Fe2P-type structure (space group P 6 2m) and
undergo a combined ﬁrst-order structural and magnetic transition
from a paramagnetic to a ferromagnetic phase. In those studies we
found that the two phases coexist in an interval of applied
magnetic-ﬁeld/temperature, and that the range of coexistence de-
pends on the composition. In general, the transition does not go to
completion so that there is a remnant untransformed fraction of
material. In this paper we investigate this problem in Mn2-xFexP1-
yGey for a number of compositions, with the goal of elucidating in
detail the effects of composition, particle size, method of prepara-
tion, and crystal structure on the physical properties, so that the
correlation between the composition and physical properties can
be established, and an optimized composition identiﬁed. The re-
sults also can be used to help understand the nature of the physical
properties of other ﬁrst-order transition materials.
2. Experimental
Mn2-xFexP1-yGey (x ¼ 0.8, 0.9; y ¼ 0.2, 0.22, 0.24) powders were
prepared by ball milling. Polycrystalline samples were subse-
quently obtained by the spark plasma sintering method as
described in previous work [25]. Detailed temperature and mag-
netic ﬁeld neutron diffraction measurements were carried out on
the high-intensity BT9 triple axis spectrometer at the NIST Center
for Neutron Research (NCNR) using pyrolytic graphite mono-
chromator and ﬁlter, with a wavelength of 2.359 Å. Neutron powder
diffraction data were also collected on the high resolution powder
neutron diffractometer (BT1), with monochromatic neutrons of
wavelength 1.5403 Å produced by a Cu(311) monochromator. We
remark that for neutron diffraction the Fe and Mn scattering am-
plitudes have opposite signs making them very easy to distinguish.
NPD measurements were carried out as a function of both magnetic
ﬁeld and temperature employing a vertical ﬁeld 7 T super-
conducting magnet.
The temperature and ﬁeld dependences of the bulk magneti-
zation were measured with a Quantum Design superconducting
quantum interference (SQUID) instrument. The temperature steps
were 1 K closer to the transition and 2 K further away. A Netzsch
differential scanning calorimetry 204 F1 was used for calorimetric
measurements. The sample of about 30 mg was investigated by
heating at the rates of 1 K/min and 5 K/min.
Temperature-dependent x-ray diffraction measurements were
carried out with a Bruker D8 Advance equipment. Scanning Elec-
tron Microscopy (SEM) data were obtained using a FEI Quanta 250,
and Electron Backscatter Diffraction (EBSD) measurements using
an EDAX/TSL system were used to investigate the microstructure.
Energy-dispersive X-ray spectroscopy (EDAX) and scanning trans-
mission synchrotron radiation X-ray microscope experiments were
used for elemental distribution analysis.
3. Results and discussion
3.1. Crystal and magnetic structures
The crystal and the magnetic structures of Mn2-xFexP1-yGey are
shown in Fig. 1. Mn2-xFexP1-yGey adopts the hexagonal Fe2P-type
structure with partial substitution of Mn for Fe and Ge for P [20].
The crystal structures of the Mn2-xFexP1-yGey samples were reﬁned
in the hexagonal space group P62m with the GSAS program [26]
using neutron powder diffraction data collected at 295 K. Nomi-
nal and reﬁned compositions are given in Table 1, where we note
that the reﬁned Mn compositions are slightly less than the nominal
ones while the Fe content is slightly higher, it may due to that Mn is
easy to be evaporated at high temperature in the process of prep-
aration. In the structure of Mn2-xFexP1-yGey for x < 1, most or all the
Mn atoms are located in the 3g (x,0,1/2) sites. When x > 1, most or
all the Mn atoms in excess of 1 occupy the 3f (x,0,0) sites and will be
indicated as % of Mn at 3f with the symbol n%Mn at 3f, where n is
the site occupancy factor of Mn. It is found that n%Mn at 3f has a
corresponding
relation
with
some
important
magnetocaloric
properties as discussed below. The substitution of Mn for Fe atoms
in the 3f site (n%Mn at 3f) is also provided in Table 1. Note that the n
% Mn at 3f depends on the Mn/Fe ratio. Substitution of Ge for P leads
to a random distribution of Ge in each of the 1b and 2c sites, with
the Ge preferentially locating in the 2c sites.
Three
typical
samples
with
nominal
compositions
Mn1.2Fe0.8P0.76Ge0.24 (sample #1), Mn1.1Fe0.9P0.76Ge0.24 (samples
#2), and Mn1.1Fe0.9P0.8Ge0.2 (samples #3) have been selected to
carry out detailed temperature and magnetic ﬁeld dependent
neutron diffraction measurements. Structural parameters of these
samples are given in Table 2. Some data for #2 and #3 have been
reported in previous works [20] and [23], in this paper we use them
for comparing and discussion. The reﬁned compositions for these
Fig. 1. Crystal and magnetic structure of MnxFe2-xP1-yGey.
D.M. Liu et al. / Journal of Alloys and Compounds 666 (2016) 108e117
109


---
# Page 3

three samples as indicated in Table 1 can be written as #1-
Mn(Fe0.83Mn0.17) (P0.74Ge0.26), #2-(Mn0.973Fe0.027) (Fe0.923Mn0.077)
(P0.83Ge0.17) and #3-(Mn0.994Fe0.006) (Fe0.938Mn0.062) (P0.76Ge0.24),
where we have explicitly indicated the Mn content on the two
different sites.
3.2. Temperature and ﬁeld induced transition
Thermomagnetic curves M-T have been measured for the three
samples and are shown in Fig. 2a, and are compared in Fig. 2b with
the FM phase fractions as a function of temperature (Frac(FM)-T)
derived from monitoring the integrated intensities of the (001)
neutron Bragg reﬂection upon warming and cooling. Note that the
c-axis lattice parameters in the paramagnetic and ferromagnetic
phases are quite different, so that the (001)PM and (001)FM re-
ﬂections are easily distinguishable with NPD [20,21]. The ferro-
magnetic transition temperature (TC), thermal hysteresis (DThys),
and the temperature range of coexistence of the PM and FM phases
(DTcoex) [20,21] are given in the ﬁgures and are quite different for
the three samples. For each sample, the corresponding values of TC
derived from the M-T and Frac(FM)-T curves are in good agreement
on both warming and cooling. The values of DThys and DTcoex
observed in the neutron experiments are larger than those derived
in the magnetization measurements, which we attribute to the
much larger NPD sample size (10 g versus 0.1 g) and the hysteresis
of the temperature controller for neutron measurements. The
neutron data (Fig. 2b) show that over this temperature range only
~85% of the PM phase (PMP) is transformed into the FM phase
(FMP) in all three samples. The remaining PM phase slowly trans-
formed to FM phase continually as the temperature was further
decreased. But quite a little of PM phase, however, still existed at
the lowest temperature we measured. In this work, we use the
temperature or magnetic ﬁeld dependent NPD or XRD measure-
ments to obtain the FM phase fraction during the FM-PM transition,
using the following formula:
FMP% ¼
IFMP
IFMP þ IPMP
(1)
In order to explore the effects of an applied magnetic ﬁeld on the
PM-FM transition, neutron diffraction data were collected under
ﬁelds of 0e7 T. As an example, data obtained from sample #1 are
shown in Fig. 3a, in which the integrated intensity of the (001)
reﬂection of the PM phase is plotted as a function of the magnetic
ﬁeld at different temperatures near TC. The data indicate that the
PM-FM transition takes place above a critical ﬁeld Bon which is
deﬁned as the ﬁeld where the transition just starts to occur, and it
can be seen that Bon depends on the measured temperature. The
same as Bon, the ﬁeld Bend is deﬁned as the ﬁeld accesses to the
completion (end) of the transition, when the ﬁeld goes beyond Bend
the transition becomes dramatically slow. Both Bon and Bend were
determined at different temperatures by neutron diffraction for a
variety of Mn2-xFexP1-yGey samples listed in Table 1. These data
were used to construct the magnetic phase diagram shown in the
inset of Fig. 3a. Between Bon and Bend, the PM and FM phases coexist
and the range of coexistence is about 1T. The Bon and Bend curves are
almost parallel and increase approximately linearly with increasing
temperature at the rate dBon/dT of about 0.3T/K. This indicates that
the temperature dependence of Bon is strong, which is a favorable
property for obtaining high values of DSM due to the fact that ac-
cording to the ClausiuseClapeyron relation [27] the magnetic en-
tropy change depends not only on the magnetization jump at TC but
also on the temperature dependence of Bon. For all the other sam-
ples we obtained Bend at TC, so that DB is almost equal to Bend.
To clearly illustrate the tendency of the transition from PM to
FM, we plot the FM phase fraction as a function of magnetic ﬁeld for
temperature of 262.5K in Fig. 3b. The trends of the transition at all
of the temperatures in Fig. 3a are similar, the data at 262.5K was
choice was an example. Of course Bon and Bend at 262.5K are higher
than those at 261K. The remaining PM continues to transform
slowly at higher magnetic ﬁelds. Note that only about 87% of the PM
phase is transformed into the FM phase at 4T, in agreement with
the results of the temperature-induced PM-FM transition shown in
Table 1
Nominal and reﬁned compositions, substitution of Mn for Fe atoms in the 3f site (n%
Mn at 3f) of the samples. Reﬁned compositions were obtained by NPD on the sin-
tered bulk samples.
Sample
Nominal composition
Reﬁned composition
n%Mn at 3f (295K)
LZ091- 1#
Mn1.2Fe0.8P0.76Ge0.24
Mn1.17Fe0.83P0.74Ge0.26
17.03
LZ092
Mn1.2Fe0.8P0.76Ge0.24
Mn1.17Fe0.83P0.74Ge0.26
17.4
LZ094
Mn1.2Fe0.8P0.76Ge0.24
Mn1.16Fe0.84P0.76Ge0.24
16.4
LL083
Mn1.1Fe0.9P0.76Ge0.24
Mn1.06Fe0.94P0.80Ge0.20
6.7
LL084- 2#
Mn1.1Fe0.9P0.76Ge0.24
Mn1.05Fe0.95P0.83Ge0.17
7.7
YM04
Mn1.1Fe0.9P0.76Ge0.24
Mn1.05Fe0.95P0.80Ge0.20
6
YM01- 3#
Mn1.1Fe0.9P0.8Ge0.2
Mn1.06Fe0.94P0.76Ge0.24
6.2
YM05
Mn1.1Fe0.9P0.8Ge0.2
Mn1.06Fe0.94P0.82Ge0.18
6.8
YM06
Mn1.1Fe0.9P0.8Ge0.2
Mn1.05Fe0.95P0.78Ge0.22
6.8
YMA11
Mn1.1Fe0.9P0.8Ge0.2
Mn1.06Fe0.94P0.76Ge0.24
6.2
YM02
Mn1.1Fe0.9P0.78Ge0.22
Mn1.06Fe0.94P0.77Ge0.23
7.2
Table 2
Structural parameters of Mn2-xFexP1-yGey. The ferromagnetic structure has magnetic symmetry P11m0 with moments for Mn and Fe that lie within the a-b plane. For con-
venience in the reﬁnements the moment was set parallel to the a direction; the moment direction within the a-b plane cannot be determined by NPD.
Sample
#1, x ¼ 1.17, y ¼ 0.26
#2, x ¼ 1.05, y ¼ 0.17
#3, x ¼ 1.06, y ¼ 0.24
MnO impurity [%]
3.4(2)
4.5(1)
3.4(2)
PMP fraction [%]
96.6(2)
95.5(1)
96.6(2)
c/a of PM at 295 K
0.56482(1)
0.56964(1)
0.57088(1)
c/a of FM after T-PFT, 0 T
0.54568(4), at 250K
0.5502, at 262 K
0.54544(2), at 259K
0.54384(2), at 230K
c/a of FM after F-PFT
0.54714(4), 262K/3T
0.54673(2),271K/3T
0.54600(2), 253K/5T
D(c/a) (T) in T-PFT, 0 T
0.0191(1), 295Ke250K
0.0146(1), 295 Ke262K
0.0242(1), 295k ~259K
0.0270(1), 295k ~230K
D(c/a) (B) in F-PFT
0.0177(1),
295K -262K/0-3T
0.0229(1),
295K -271K/0-3T
0.0249(1),
295K -253K/0-5T
MFe (T) [mB] (in T-PFT), 0 T
0.35(7), at 250K
0.73(6), at 259 K
1.14(9), at 230 K
MMn (T) [mB] (inT-PFT), 0 T
3.15(7), at 250K
3.56(5), at 259 K
3.57(9), at 230 K
Mf.u(T) [mB](in T-PFT), 0 T
3.50(10), at 250K
4.30(8), at 259 K
4.7(1), at 230 K
MFe (B) [mB] (in F-PFT)
0.89(9), 262K/0-3T
0.75(8), 271K/0-3T
0.80(7), 253K/0-5T
MMn (B) [mB] (in F-PFT)
3.70(9), 262K/0-3T
3.91(8), 271K/0-3T
4.49(8), 253K/0-5T
Mf.u (B) [mB] (in F-PFT)
4.59(10), 262K/0-3T
4.30(1), 262K/0-1T
4.64(10), 271K/0-3T
4.72(10), 271K/0-6T
5.5(1), 253K/0-3T
5.6(1), 253K/0-5T
D.M. Liu et al. / Journal of Alloys and Compounds 666 (2016) 108e117
110


---
# Page 4

Fig. 2b. Our NPD results show that this untransformed PM phase is
of existence at all the measured temperature, and as we will
demonstrate below originates from the fraction of particles that
have a small size.
For practical applications it is necessary to complete the PM-FM
transition at a low enough ﬁeld so that current permanent mag-
netic technology can be employed, and highly desirable to be low
enough to use inexpensive magnets. Fig. 4 demonstrates that there
is direct correlation between DTcoex and Bend, i.e., the larger is DTcoex,
the larger is Bend. The data were collected from the eleven sintered
samples listed in Table 1. For each sample, we determined the value
of Bend as displayed in Fig. 3a and derived DTcoex from the differ-
ential scanning calorimetry (DSC) results as indicated in Fig. 5a. Of
course DTcoex can also been obtained by neutron or X-ray diffraction
methods as shown in Fig. 2b, but DSC results are more accurate and
the way is easy to be carried on. It has been shown that the coex-
istence of the PM and FM phases in the temperature interval DTcoex
is partly due to the inhomogeneity of the distribution of component
atoms in the structure [31,32]. It follows, therefore, that the system
will have small values of Bend when the chemical inhomogeneity is
reduced or eliminated by means of appropriate preparation and
treatment of the samples.
3.3. Relationships between n%Mn at 3f site and physical properties
The PM and FM phases in all the compounds have the same
crystal symmetry (P62m) and structure, and therefore we expect
that the observed variations of the physical properties must be
strongly correlated with the chemical composition and the distri-
bution
of
the
atoms
in
the
structure.
In
this
paper
the
Fig. 2. (a) Temperature dependence of the magnetization M-T of MnxFe2-xP1-yGey for three polycrystalline compositions (see Table 1) obtained on warming and cooling under an
external magnetic field of 0.05 T. Note that 1 emu/g ¼ 1 Am2/kg; (b) FM phase fraction as a function of temperature upon warming and cooling under zero applied ﬁeld.
Fig. 3. (a) (001)PM integrated intensity of sample #1 as a function of magnetic ﬁeld at different temperatures. Inset: magnetic phase diagram for sample #1 obtained from neutron
data. (b) FM phase fraction as a function of magnetic ﬁeld.
Fig. 4. Plot of Bend as a function of DTcoex.
D.M. Liu et al. / Journal of Alloys and Compounds 666 (2016) 108e117
111


---
# Page 5

magnetocaloric properties of all samples were determined from
calorimetric
and
magnetic
measurements
and used
for
the
following discussion.
Typically the MCE is derived from magnetic measurements with
the use of the Maxwell relation, but the reliability of this procedure
in the case of ﬁrst order transitions is controversial [28,29].
Therefore, for our system, calorimetric measurements with a DSC
have been made to obtain the latent heat and the entropy change
directly, which can then be compared with the magnetic mea-
surements [22]. In the present alloy system, the strongly ﬁrst order
transition occurs from a paramagnetic (PM) to a ferromagnetic
(FM) phase and can be induced either by temperature or by an
applied magnetic ﬁeld. Our investigations indicate that the two
processes exhibit essentially identical evolutions regarding the
crystal and magnetic structures, indicating they should have the
similar entropy change. We therefore conclude that the DS obtained
by the DSC method (where the transition is temperature induced)
is valid also for this magnetically induced transition, thus avoiding
uncertainties connected with the magnetic measurements [22].
The total entropy of the transition was evaluated by numerical
integration of the expression
DSDSC ¼ ST2  ST1 ¼
ZT2
T1
CP
dT
T
(2)
where CP is the zero-ﬁeld heat capacity.
Fig. 5a shows DSDSC of obtained from the DSC data for sample 1#
as a function of temperature at rates of 5 K/min on warming. In the
experiments we found that different rate of temperature change
had no signiﬁcant effect on DS [22]. The transition temperatures
almost agree with the results obtained from the M-T data and from
the neutron measurements (Fig. 2). The entropy changes DSDSC
directly measured were corrected for the effect of the incom-
pleteness of the PM-FM transition and for the small MnO impurity
content, to obtain results assuming metallurgically ideal samples
[30].
In this work the magnetic entropy change DSM for the eleven
samples as a function of temperature and for different magnetic
ﬁelds were also evaluated by the same method as the references
[6e11]. Determination of the isothermal DSM from M-B data is
commonly
done
using
the
Maxwell
equation
DSM ¼ SMðT; BÞ  SMðT; 0Þ ¼ R B
0 ðvM=vTÞdB. According to the refer-
ence [33], DSM can be obtained by ﬁeld sweep, temperature sweep
or magnetization, in the present work what we used is magneti-
zation. In Fig. 5b we show the curves DSM for sample 1# as a
function of temperature and for different magnetic ﬁelds. The
calculated maximum are jDSMj ¼ 25.1, 43.8, and 83.5 J kg1K1 for
samples #1, #2, and #3 at DВ ¼ 5Τ, respectively. When normalized
assuming ideal properties, these values increase to 29.6, 51.2, and
96.5 J kg1 K1. The jDSMj for #3 was reported in Fig. 1b in Ref. [20]
and for #2 was reported in Ref. [22]. In this study we re-measured
jDSMj for sample #3 and used it for comparing with other samples.
Here, we need to emphasize that although the Maxwell relation is
controversial as mentioned above but the values of jDSMj calculated
by the same method are still comparable.
Fig. 5c shows the peak DSM as a function of external applied
ﬁeld at TC. For samples #2 and #3, jDSMj increases linearly with
increasing ﬁeld at a rate of 9.7, and 20.2 J kg1K1T1, respectively,
while for sample #1 the rate is 8.4 J kg1K1T1 below 2 T, and only
1.4 J kg1K1T1 above 2 T. Since the completing ﬁeld for the
transition is 1.2 T, as mentioned above in Fig. 3a, this behavior in-
dicates that DSM of sample #1 is nearly saturated at ~1.2 T at TC.
The values of DSM for #2 and #3 continue increasing with ﬁeld up
to more than 5 T, indicating that these transitions are not complete
until high ﬁelds are applied.
Tables 2 and 3 give the structural parameters and magnetic
properties of the three Mn2-xFexP1-yGey samples, 1#, 2# and 3#.
Fig. 6 shows some of the data for all eleven compounds, where the
normalized *DSDSC were obtained from DSDSC:
*DSDSC ¼
DSDSC
FM%  ð1  Impurity%Þ
(3)
Indeed the data reported in Table 3 and Fig. 6 show that the
substitution of Mn for Fe atoms at 3f site (n%Mn at 3f) plays a very
important role in this system. More speciﬁcally, when n%Mn at 3f
increases from 6.2% in sample #3e17% in sample #1, the magnetic
moments decrease from 4.7 to 3.5 mB for Mf.u.(T) and from 5.5 to
4.59 mB for Mf.u.(B), with a consequent decrease in the normalized
*DSDSC from 48.4 to 35.5 J kg1 K1 (Table 3 and Fig. 6a). Most
importantly, there is a huge decrease of the thermal hysteresis
DThys from 15 to 2 K, and a huge decrease of the magnetic ﬁeld
saturation requirement Bend from 5.2 to 1.2 T (Table 3 and Fig. 6d.
Fig. 6c shows that the ratios of *DSDSC/Mf.u.(T), D(c/a)/Mf.u.(T), and
*DSDSC/Dc/a vs. n%Mn at 3f are almost constant, and that the ratio
*DSDSC/Mf.u.(T) has a constant value of about 10 J kg1 K1mB1 for
the three samples. This behavior suggests that the total entropy
change and the magnetostriction effect are linearly correlated with
Fig. 5. a) Zero ﬁeld entropy changes as a function of temperature obtained from DSC data taken with 5 K/min for sample #1; b) Temperature dependence of the magnetic entropy
change of sample #1 as a function of applied magnetic ﬁeld determined using the Maxwell relation. c) The peak DSM as a function of external magnetic ﬁeld at TC for the three
MnxFe2-xP1-yGey samples.
D.M. Liu et al. / Journal of Alloys and Compounds 666 (2016) 108e117
112


---
# Page 6

the ordered magnetic moment. The function *DSDSC vs. Mf.u.(T) is
also plotted in the lower part of Fig. 7. The upper part of the ﬁgure
shows that DSM, evaluated using the equation DSM
max ¼ Rln(2J þ 1)
[34] vs. the moment is also almost linear in the range between 2
and 6 mB. On the basis of these results, a compound like sample #1
with ~19% Mnat 3f is expected to have a large MCE (DSM,calc in
Table 3), between 35 and 46 J kg1 K1, with small hysteresis (DThys
close to 0 K) and a required magnetic ﬁeld to complete the tran-
sition of less than 1.2 T Fig. 6d.
From Table 1 we ﬁnd that the n%Mn at 3f value depends on the
Mn/Fe ratio but not on the Ge/P ratio in the alloys. As the concen-
tration of Mn atoms located in the 3f sites changes, the parameters
corresponding to the most important physical properties are
signiﬁcantly affected, as shown in Table 3 and Fig. 6. (We note that
in discussing the values of DSDSC, the direct calorimetric measure-
ments made with a DSC will be used rather than the values ob-
tained with the Maxwell relation using the magnetization curves).
In order to have a large MCE with a low applied magnetic ﬁeld,
the material must have a sharp ﬁrst-order transition with a large
entropy change from one state to the other, and large ordered
magnetic moments. It is also important to have a small thermal
hysteresis to reduce losses, and a small magnetostriction for me-
chanical
stability.
The
hysteresis
will
in
fact
reduce
the
Table 3
Magnetic properties of Mn2-xFexP1-yGey.
Sample
#1, x ¼ 1.17, y ¼ 0.26
#2, x ¼ 1.05, y ¼ 0.17
#3, x ¼ 1.06, y ¼ 0.24
-aDSDSC J Kg1K1, 0 T
35.5
42.4
48.4
**DSM, calc J kg1K1
46.6 (3T), 43.6 (1 T)
45.8 (3T), 46.5 (6T)
56.6 (3T), 57.7 (5T)
TC (K)
267
285
270
DThys (K)
2
11
15
DTcoex (K)/Bend (T)
6/1.2
9/2.7
17/5.2
FMP fraction (%)
84.7 at 250 K
85.6 at 259 K
86.5 at 230 K
a Here we adjust the measured entropy DSDSC via DSM, calc ¼ Mf.u. (B)  [DSDSC/Mf.u. (T)] with the ordered magnetic moments determined by the NPD measurements to reﬂect
the magnetic entropy.
Fig. 6. Variation of some physical properties of the compounds of the system Mn2-xFexP1-yGey as a function of the atomic per cent of Mn in the 3f position of space group P62m: a)
total magnetic moments Mf.u.(T), MMn(T)þMFe(T) of the FM phase, obtained from the temperature dependent NPD, and *DSDSC normalized and calculated (The ‘normalized’ entropy
change is obtained by scaling the measured DSDSC by assuming a 100% conversion of PM to FM); b) total magnetic moments Mf.u.(B), MMn(B) þ MFe(B), of the FM phase, obtained with
an applied magnetic ﬁeld of 1 and 3T from NPD measurements. The ‘calculated’ *DS is obtained by *DSM,cal ¼ Mf.u. (B)*DSDSC/Mf.u. (T); c) this ﬁgure shows that the changes of *DSDSC
and D(c/a) as a function of n% are related by the equation *DSDSC ¼ k  D(c/a) where k is a constant. Similar behavior is found for *DSDSC and the total magnetic moment Mf.u.(T) (see
also Fig. 7). It follows that D(c/a)/Mf.u.(T) ¼ k0/k where *DSDSC/Mf.u. (T) ¼ k0. The ratio k0/k is slightly sloping down as n% increases; d) the values of Bend (magnetic ﬁeld value at the
end of the transition) and DThys as function of n%. Note that DThys decreases sharply as n% increases. The Bend for the sample LZ092 is as small as 0.9T, but is 7T for YM05.
Fig. 7. Plot of DSM
max, *DSDSC and *DSM calc vs. the total magnetic moment Mf.u. (T).
*DSM calc was calculated with the equation *DSM calc ¼ Mf.u. (B)  [*DSDSC/Mf.u. (T)]. Note
that it is almost linear in the range between 2 mB and 6mB.
D.M. Liu et al. / Journal of Alloys and Compounds 666 (2016) 108e117
113


---
# Page 7

magnetocaloric working efﬁciency. However, for sample #1, the
reduction of Mf.u.(T) can be circumvented by using an applied
magnetic ﬁeld of 1.2 T, with a consequent change of the moment
from 3.5 to 4.3 mB and a corresponding increase of MCE from 35.5 to
43.6 J kg1 K1. The small hysteresis for sample #1 can be attributed
to the large substitution of Mn for Fe at the 3f site and that of Ge for
P. This is because 1) the larger the substitution, the easier chemical
homogeneity can be obtained. and 2) the Ge substitution for P in-
creases TC while Mn substitution for Fe decreases TC, and as a
consequence there is little change of TC [17,18] in every crystallite
particle in the sample. Thus, the magnetic ﬁeld required for the PM-
FM transition is reduced.
The study of a number of samples with different compositions
(Table 3 and Fig. 6) has shown that when n%Mn at 3f increases, a
decrease is observed of the following parameters associated with
the transition: (i) total magnetic moment (Mf.u. ¼ MMn þ MFe); (ii)
entropy change *DS; (iii) hysteresis DThys.; (iv) value of the applied
magnetic ﬁeld at the end of transition Bend; (v) magnetostriction
D(c/a); (vi) critical temperature TC. Some of these variations are
desirable (e.g. hysteresis, Bend, D(c/a), TC) others are not (e.g. mag-
netic moment, entropy change), and, therefore, compromises will
have to be made to obtain a compound suitable for practical ap-
plications. Fig. 6c shows that the variation of *DSDSC and of D(c/a)
as
a
function
of
n%Mn
at
3f
is
related
by
the
equation
*DSDSC ¼ k  D(c/a), where k is constant. Similar behavior is found
for *DSDSC and the total magnetic moment Mf.u.(T). (see Fig. 6). It
therefore follows that D(c/a)/Mf.u. (T) ¼ k0/k, where k0 ¼ *DSDSC/
Mf.u.(T). (in fact k0/k is very slightly sloping down as n% Mn at 3f
increases). Two of the most important properties that a magneto-
caloric material must have to be a candidate for technological ap-
plications are a small hysteresis of the PM to FM transitions and a
small magnetic ﬁeld necessary to induce the transition around
room temperature. As shown in Fig. 6d, both properties are strongly
dependent on n% Mn at 3f, making the Mn content of a compound
of the Mn2-xFexP1-yGey system one of the primary factors in opti-
mizing the properties for practical applications.
3.4. Effects of crystallite size and inhomogeneities of composition
on the transition
As shown in Figs. 2b and 3, the PM-FM transition is not com-
plete, and it has been observed that the diffraction lines of the re-
sidual PM phase are considerably broadened, indicating the small
size of the PM crystallites that don't transform.
Fig. 8 shows the magnetization curves of the powder (YMP20)
and SPS synthesis (YM01) samples of Mn1.1Fe0.9P0.8Ge0.2 as a
function of temperature. The YMP20 sample was prepared by ball
milling while the YM01 sample was prepared by spark plasma
sintering. A ferromagnetic transition occurs near 250 K for the
YM01 sample but no sharp transformation was observed in the
measurement for the YMP20 powder. The inset shows that the
primary difference between the two sample is that the width of the
001 PM and FM reﬂections is much larger in the case of YMP20 (at
15 K) than that of YM01 (at 245 K). Correspondingly, the magne-
tization curve of YM01 is sharp, and that of YMP20 remains prac-
tically unchanged between 4 and 300 K. This indicates that the
small sizes of the crystallites (estimated from the width of the (001)
Bragg peaks to be about 50 nm for YMP20) inhibit the transition.
These results demonstrate that the particle size plays an essential
role in the magnetocaloric properties.
Fig. 9a,b display the zero-ﬁeld temperature dependence of the
intensities and widths of the 001 PM and FM peaks for the YM01
Mn1.1Fe0.9P0.8Ge0.2 sintered sample, collected on warming at 10 K/
hour. The inset shows the diffraction scan (2q) of the 001 PM and
FM peaks at the indicated temperatures. At 200 K, a fraction of the
sample is still in the PM phase, and clearly consists of very small
crystallites, as indicated by the large width of the 001 PM peak. The
contribution of the small crystallites to the width of the 001 PM
peak begins to be signiﬁcant at 265 K and keeps increasing down to
200 K. Note that the width of the FM peak is constant over the
entire range of temperatures. The phase transition occurs in the
interval 258e275 K (DT ¼ 17 K), in which the intensity changes with
a steep slope, and, at a much slower rate, in the interval 248e258 K.
The slope in the range 258e275 K indicates inhomogeneities of
composition, and the small departures from linearity are due to the
fact that the compositional variations in the sample are not quite
uniform.
Fig. 9c,d display the magnetic ﬁeld dependence of the intensities
and widths
of
the
001
PM
and FM
peaks
for the
YM01
Mn1.1Fe0.9P0.8Ge0.2 sintered sample at 255 K, the PM-FM Curie
temperature TC. Between 0 and 2.6 T the intensities of the two
peaks vary slowly, between 2.6 T and 5.5 T the variation is more
pronounced, and ﬁnally between 5.5 T and 6.9 T the remaining PM
phase essentially does not convert into FM. Interestingly, the
FWHM of (001) PM increases in this last interval signiﬁcantly,
conﬁrming once again that the smallest crystallites in the sample
are responsible for the incompleteness of the transformation.
A comparison of Fig. 9c with Fig. 9a indicates that the effect of an
applied magnetic ﬁeld is similar to that produced by lowering the
temperature, as it should be, since both induce the ferromagnetic
ordering of the spins of the magnetic atoms. The two methods,
however, are not identical, as the changes of intensity and FWHM of
the (001) PM reﬂections are not as well deﬁned in the case of the
applied ﬁeld. One reason for this behavior is that the moments
prefer to lie in-plane, while the applied ﬁeld in a powder makes all
angles with respect to the easy plane. Conversely, when lowering
the temperature the internally generated in-plane ﬁeld assists the
external ﬁeld in facilitating the PM to FM transition. This suggests
that developing sample preparation techniques that produced
preferred orientation of the material should further improve the
Fig. 8. Magnetization vs temperature plots of the Ball Milled and Spark Plasma Sin-
tering (SPS) samples (YMP20 and YM01[Figure 4a in reference 20], respectively) ob-
tained from the compound having nominal composition Mn1.1Fe0.9P0.8Ge0.2. The
neutron diffraction proﬁles of the (001)PM and (001)FM reﬂections produced by the
two samples are shown in the inset. The results demonstrate that in the case of YMP20
(very broadened peaks) the transition from PM to FM is hindered because the crys-
tallites are too small to allow the ordering of the magnetic moments, while in the case
of YM01 (sharp peaks) the transition occurs as expected.
D.M. Liu et al. / Journal of Alloys and Compounds 666 (2016) 108e117
114


---
# Page 8

MCE performance.
It is clear that the size of the crystallites plays an important role
in the fraction of the sample that transforms, as the data in Fig. 9
demonstrate that the largest crystallites transform ﬁrst, leaving
the smaller crystallites in the PM phase; hence the broadened Bragg
peak. In addition, we know from previous work that compositional
variations affect both the transition temperature and phase fraction
that converts [20e22]. We have therefore undertaken additional
characterization and annealing studies in order to unravel these
two contributions to the performance of the material and to
establish a procedure to improve the performance.
The distribution of compositions in these Mn2-xFexP1-yGey alloys
was investigated by SEM þ EDAX and scanning transmission syn-
chrotron radiation X-ray microscope experiments. The latter X-ray
measurements were carried out at the Shanghai Synchrotron Ra-
diation Facility [35], which provided chemical mapping with a
spatial resolution of 30 nm. Mn, Fe and Ge were chosen to be
scanned separately at the absorption edge and then distributions of
these elements were obtained. The element mappings do not show
signiﬁcant inhomogeneity.
SEM þ EDAX analysis shows that in our Mn2-xFexP1-yGey alloys,
Ge readily accumulates at grain boundaries. Fig. 10a shows the
backscattered
electron
SEM
image
of
the
DMD01
Mn1.2Fe0.8P0.76Ge0.24 bulk sample. The white lines located at the
grain boundaries were analyzed by EDAX which indicated that
those are areas with enhanced Ge content.
In order to ascertain the effects of both particle size and in-
homogeneities on the magnetocaloric properties, subsequent ho-
mogenizing treatments were applied to the sample DMD01 with
compositions Mn1.2Fe0.8P0.76Ge0.24. The heat treatments were per-
formed by annealing at 950 C for 15 h, followed by at 850 C for
48 h. The annealed sample was renamed as DMD02. After such heat
treatments, the compositional homogeneity improved and the
grains
increased
in
size,
substantially
improving
the
Fig. 9. Neutron diffraction intensities of the (001) PM and FM reﬂections as a function of: a) temperature and c) applied magnetic ﬁeld for the YM01 sample. The corresponding line
widths are shown in b) and d), respectively. The ﬁgure illustrates that in both the temperature and magnetic ﬁeld induced transitions: (i) the transition is not complete, (ii) the
ranges of coexistence of the two phases are large and, (iii) the broadening of both the FM and PM peaks at the beginning and at the end of the transition is quite evident. As
explained in the text, these features are due to the distribution of crystallite sizes in the sample. The inset shows the proﬁles of the (001) Bragg peak in the PM and FM phases at
three temperatures.
Fig. 10. Backscattered scanning electron microscopy (SEM-BSE) images (a, b) and
electron
back
scattered
diffraction
(EBSD)
images
(c,
d)
of
the
compound
Mn1.2Fe0.8P0.76Ge0.24 for a, c) the initial sintered, and b, d) post-annealed samples. The
white lines in a) indicate grain boundaries that are rich in Ge. The arrows indicate the
points where the SEM-BSE analysis was performed (E and G in-grain points, and F and
H grain-boundary points). The black spots in (a, b) are holes. The different shades
(colors) appearing in the EBSD images (c, d) are due to the different orientations of the
crystallites. Lower magniﬁcation was used during the EBSD measurements for statis-
tical purposes. (For interpretation of the references to colour in this ﬁgure legend, the
reader is referred to the web version of this article.)
Table 4
Atomic
distributions
of
the
DMD01
as-sintered
and
DMD02
annealed
Mn1.2Fe0.8P0.76Ge0.24 sample.
Mn
Fe
P
Ge
E, in grain, DMD01
1.2096
0.7903
0.7837
0.2291
F, grain boundary, DMD01
1.0978
0.9463
0.5296
1.1296
G, in grain, DMD02
1.2061
0.8015
0.7874
0.2323
H, grain boundary, DMD02
1.2043
0.7982
0.7786
0.2758
D.M. Liu et al. / Journal of Alloys and Compounds 666 (2016) 108e117
115


---
# Page 9

magnetocaloric properties as we now discuss.
Fig.
10b
shows
the
SEM
image
of
the
DMD02
Mn1.2Fe0.8P0.76Ge0.24 sample, comparing it to the sample before
annealing (Fig. 10a). Note that the Ge concentration at the grain
boundaries obviously has been reduced. Table 4 gives the atomic
distributions at four points (E, F, G, H) calculated from the EDAX
analysis. Note in particular that the data at F indicate that the grain
boundaries in the DM01 sample are rich in Ge and poor in P. Most
importantly, after the annealing procedure we ﬁnd that the grain
size has increased dramatically as indicated in Fig. 10b,d for the
annealed sample, with the average grain size increasing from 10 to
50 mm.
Fig. 11 presents the jSDSCj-T curves, and the temperature
dependence of the content of the paramagnetic phase percentage
calculated from X-ray diffraction for the as-sintered and annealed
Mn1.2Fe0.8P0.76Ge0.24 alloys. The transition range DT of the DMD01
and DMD02 samples is 8.1 K and 6.9 K, respectively, while the re-
sidual PM phase at the end temperatures of the transition is 21%
and 11.8%. Our previous study demonstrated that the magnetic-
entropy change directly corresponds to the phase fraction of the
magnetic transition [20]. Fig. 11a shows that the DSDSC values for
DMD01 and DMD02 are 20.5 J/kg K and 24.4 J/kg K, respectively,
while the thermal hysteresis of DMD02 was reduced from 3.8 K to
3.4 K. Thus the magnetocaloric properties
are substantially
improved in all aspects by the above annealing procedures.
4. Conclusions
The magnetocaloric properties of the Mn2-xFexP1-yGey system
near optimal doping have been investigated in detail using a variety
of experimental techniques to determine the crystallographic
structure, caloric behavior, and morphology of the system. We ﬁnd
that compositional homogeneity and particle size play an essential
role in optimizing the MCE properties, and an annealing procedure
has been developed to optimize these properties. Neutron diffrac-
tion, differential scanning calorimetry, and magnetization mea-
surements, have been used to determine the effects of the Mn
content and crystallographic location, and of Ge content, on the
crystal structure, the magnetic moment, the magnetic entropy
change, hysteresis, and saturation ﬁeld of the ﬁrst-order PM-FM
combined magnetic and structural transition in the Mn2-xFexP1-
yGey system. The results show that when n%Mn at 3f increases from
6.2% to 17%, the magnetic moments decrease from 4.7 to 3.41 mB for
the temperature induced moment Mf.u.(T), and from 5.5 to 4.59 mB
for the magnetic ﬁeld induced moment, Mf.u.(B), with a consequent
decrease of the entropy change *DSDSC (measured by DSC) from
48.4 to 35.5 J kg1 K1. At the same time, however, the hysteresis
decreases dramatically from 15 K to 2 K, and the value of the
applied magnetic ﬁeld required to complete the PM-FM transition
near TC decreases radically from 7 T to 0.9 T. Thus the important
properties of these materials can be tuned by composition and
preparation methods to provide to optimize those properties
relevant for refrigerant applications. There is an important corre-
lation between applied magnetic ﬁeld to complete the transition
and the temperature range of coexistence of the PM and FM phase.
We believe that these conclusions should also apply to other
compounds with the Fe2P-type structure.
Acknowledgments
The authors are grateful to Anthony Santoro for valuable dis-
cussions and the BL08U Beam line of the Shanghai Synchrotron
Radiation Facility (SSRF) for the synchrotron radiation X-ray mea-
surements. This work supported in part by the Natural Science
Foundation of Beijing (KZ201410005005) and the Research Fund for
the
Doctoral
Program
of
Higher
Education
of
China
(20121103110028). The identiﬁcation any commercial products
does not imply endorsement or recommendation by the National
Institute of Standards and Technology.
References
[1] J. Glanz, Science 279 (1998) 2045.
[2] M.H. Phan, S.C. Yu, J. Magn. Magn. Mater 308 (2007) 325.
[3] K.A. Gschneidner Jr., V.K. Pecharsky, Int. J. Refrig. 31 (2008) 945.
[4] A. Smith, C.R.H. Bahl, R. Bjørk, K. Engelbrecht, K.K. Nielsen, N. Pryds, Adv.
Energy Mater 2 (2012) 1288.
[5] L. Ma~nosa, A. Planes, M. Acet, J. Mater. Chem. A 1 (2013) 4925.
[6] K.V. Pecharsky, K.A. Gschneidner, Phys. Rev. Lett. 78 (1997) 4494.
[7] O. Tegus, E. Brück, K.H.J. Buschow, F.R. de Boer, Nature 415 (2002) 150.
[8] F.X. Hu, B.G. Shen, J.R. Sun, Z.H. Cheng, G.H. Rao, X.X. Zhang, Appl. Phys. Lett.
78 (2001) 3675.
[9] H. Wada, Y. Tanabe, Appl. Phys. Lett. 79 (2001) 3302.
[10] W. Chen, W. Zhong, C.F. Pan, H. Chang, Y.W. Du, Acta Phys. Sin. 50 (2001) 319.
[11] M. Pasquale, C.P. Sasso, L.H. Lewis, J. Appl. Phys. 95 (2004) 6918.
[12] Z.J. Mo, J. Shen, L.Q. Yan, J.F. Wu, L.C. Wang, J. Lin, C.C. Tang, B.G. Shen, Appl.
Phys. Lett. 102 (2013) 192407.
[13] M.F. Md Din, J.L. Wang, S.J. Campbell, R. Zeng, W.D. Hutchison, M. Avdeev,
S.J. Kennedy, S.X. Doum, J. Phys. D. Appl. Phys. 46 (2013) 445002.
[14] S.Y. Zhang, P. Zhao, R.W. Li, H.W. Zhang, B.G. Shen, J. Appl. Phys. 91 (2002)
5250.
[15] W. Dagula, O. Tegus, X.W. Li, L. Song, E. Brück, D.T. Cam Thanh, F.R. de Boer,
K.H.J. Buschow, J. Appl. Phys. 99 (2006) 105.
[16] D.T. Cam Thanh, E. Brück, O. Tegus, J.C.P. Klaasse, T.J. Gortenmulder,
K.H.J. Buschow, J. Appl. Phys. 99 (2006) 08Q107.
[17] Z.Q. Ou, G.F. Wang, L. Song, O. Tegus, E. Brück, K.H.J. Buschow, J. Phys. Con-
dens. Matter 18 (2006) 11577.
[18] N.T. Trung, Z.Q. Ou, T.J. Gortenmulder, O. Tegus, K.H.J. Buschow, Appl. Phys.
Lett. 94 (2009) 102513.
[19] J.V. Leit~ao, M. van der Haar, A. Lefering, E. Brück, J. Magn. Magn. Mater 344
(2013) 49.
[20] D.M. Liu, M. Yue, J.X. Zhang, T.M. McQueen, W.J. Lynn, X.L. Wang, Y. Chen, J. Li,
R.J. Cava, X. Liu, Z. Altounian, Q. Huang, Phys. Rev. B 79 (2009) 014435.
Fig. 11. (a) jSDSCjvs temperature plots. The (blue) triangles represent the behavior of the DMD01 sample (as sintered) and the (red) square/circles that of DMD02 (annealed). The
increase in the value of DS for the annealed sample is due to the increase of the FM phase fraction in DMD02. (b) Phase fraction for the sintered [(blue) squares] and annealed [(red)
circles] samples vs. temperature. (For interpretation of the references to colour in this ﬁgure legend, the reader is referred to the web version of this article.)
D.M. Liu et al. / Journal of Alloys and Compounds 666 (2016) 108e117
116


---
# Page 10

[21] D.M. Liu, Q.Z. Huang, M. Yue, W.J. Lynn, L.J. Liu, Y. Chen, Z.H. Wu, J.X. Zhang,
Phys. Rev. B 80 (2009) 174415.
[22] M. Yue, D.M. Liu, Q.Z. Huang, T. Wang, F.X. Hu, J.B. Li, G.H. Rao, B.G. Shen,
J.W. Lynn, J.X. Zhang, J. Appl. Phys. 113 (2013) 043925.
[23] L.J. Liu, D.M. Liu, Q.Z. Huang, T.L. Zhang, L. Zhang, M. Yue, W.J. Lynn, J.X. Zhang,
Powder Diffr. 3 (2010) 25.
[24] H. Xu, M. Yue, C. Zhao, D.T. Zang, J.X. Zhang, Rare Met. 31 (2012) 336.
[25] M. Yue, Z.Q. Li, X.L. Wang, D.M. Liu, J.X. Zhang, X.B. Liu, J. Appl. Phys. 105
(2009) 07A915.
[26] A. Larson, R.B. Von Dreele, GSAS: Generalized Structure Analysis System, 1994.
[27] A. Giguere, M. Foldeaki, B. Ravi Gopal, R. Chahine, T.K. Bose, A. Frydman,
J.A. Barclay, Phys. Rev. Lett. 83 (1999) 2262.
[28] J.D. Zou, B.G. Shen, B. Gao, J. Shen, J.R. Sun, Adv. Mater 21 (2009) 693.
[29] G.J. Liu, S.J.R. un, J. Shen, B. Gao, H.W. Zhang, F.X. Hu, B.G. Shen, Appl. Phys.
Lett. 90 (2007) 032507.
[30] D.M. Liu, H. Zhang, S.B. Wang, W.Q. Xiao, Z.L. Zhang, N. Tian, C.X. Liu, M. Yue,
Q.Z. Huang, J.X. Zhang, J.W. Lynn, J. Alloys Comp. 633 (2015) 120e126.
[31] C.R.H. Bahl, R. Bjørk, A. Smith, K.K. Nielsen, J. Magn. Magn. Mate 324 (2012)
564.
[32] J.S. Amaral, P.B. Tavares, M.S. Reis, J.P. Araujo, T.M. Mendonca, V.S. Amaral,
J.M. Vieira, J. Non-Cryst. Solids 354 (2008) 5301.
[33] J.C.B. Monteiro, R.D. dos Reis, A.M. Mansanares, F.G. Gandra, Appl. Phys. Lett.
105 (2014) 074104.
[34] A.M. Tishin, Y.I. Spichkin, Institute of Physics, Bristol and Philadelphia, ﬁrst ed.,
vol. 1, 2003, p. 351. Chap. 11.
[35] C.F. Xue, Y. Wang, Z. Guo, Y.Q. Wu, X.J. Zhen, M. Chen, J.H. Chen, S. Xue,
Z.Q. Peng, Q.P. Lu, R.Z. Tai, Rev. Sci. Instr. 81 (2010) 103502.
D.M. Liu et al. / Journal of Alloys and Compounds 666 (2016) 108e117
117


---
