# Page 1

Magnetic structures of rare earth intermetallic compounds RCuAs2 (R ¼ Pr,
Nd, Tb, Dy, Ho, and Yb)
Y. Zhao a,b,*, J.W. Lynn a, G.S. Thakur c,1, Z. Haque c, L.C. Gupta c,2, A.K. Ganguli c,d
a NIST Center for Neutron Research, National Institute of Standards and Technology, Gaithersburg, MD, 20899, USA
b Department of Materials Science and Engineering, University of Maryland, College Park, MD, 20742, USA
c Department of Chemistry, Indian Institute of Technology Delhi, 110016, India
d Institute of Nano Science and Technology, Mohali, 160064, India
A R T I C L E I N F O
Keywords:
Neutron scattering
Magnetic structure
Phase transitions
A B S T R A C T
Neutron scattering studies have been carried out on polycrystalline samples of a series of rare earth intermetallic
compounds RCuAs2 (R ¼ Pr, Nd, Dy, Tb, Ho and Yb) as a function of temperature to determine the magnetic
structures and the order parameters. These compounds crystallize in the ZrCuSi2 type structure, which is similar
to that of the RFeAsO (space group P4/nmm) class of iron-based superconductors. PrCuAs2 develops commen-
surate magnetic order with K ¼ (0, 0, 0.5) below TN ¼ 6.4(2) K, with the ordered moments pointing along the c-
axis. The irreducible representation analysis shows either a Γ1
2 or Γ1
3 representation. NdCuAs2 and DyCuAs2
order below TN ¼ 3.54(5) K and TN ¼ 10.1(2) K, respectively, with the same ordering wave vector but the
moments lying in the a-b plane (with a Γ2
9 or Γ2
10 representation). TbCuAs2 and HoCuAs2 exhibit incommen-
surate magnetic structures below TN ¼ 9.44(7) and 4.41(2) K, respectively. For TbCuAs2, two separate magnetic
ordering wave vectors are established as K1(Tb) ¼ (0.240,0.155,0.48) and K2(Tb) ¼ (0.205, 0.115, 0.28), whereas
HoCuAs2 forms a single K(Ho) ¼ (0.121, 0.041, 0.376) magnetic structure with 3rd order harmonic magnetic peaks.
YbCuAs2 does not exhibit any magnetic Bragg peaks at 1.5 K, while susceptibility measurements indicate an
antiferromagnetic-like transition at 4 K, suggesting that either the ordering is not long range in nature or the
ordered moment is below the sensitivity limit of ≈0.2 μB.
1. Introduction
Rare earth (R) compounds have generated considerable interest over
many decades because of the rich variety of exotic phenomena they
display [1], such as unconventional superconductivity [2], coexistence of
superconductivity and magnetism [3], multiferroicity [4–6], heavy
fermion behaviour [7], and high-Tc superconductivity in cuprates [8].
The most recent exotic phenomenon in rare earth compounds is the high-
temperature superconductivity in iron pnictides such as RFeAsO1-xFx and
related systems [9]. The present RCuAs2 compounds are a new class of
rare earth intermetallic materials, which have been the subject of recent
studies that have revealed several anomalous properties [10–12]. In
these materials, the magnetic properties arise only from the R3þ ions, as
the Cu1þ ions are non-magnetic (d10 system). Interestingly, several
compounds of RCuAs2 (R ¼ Tb, Dy, Sm, and Gd) show an anomalous
resistivity minimum which happens well above the magnetic phase
transition to long range magnetic order, while others (R ¼ Pr, Nd, Ho,
and Yb) do not have such a resistivity minimum even though the mag-
netic phase transitions are still present. Although the origin of this
anomalous resistivity minima is not fully understood, it is believed to be
related to the magnetism in these materials. Here we report compre-
hensive neutron scattering studies of the crystallographic and magnetic
properties of the polycrystalline RCuAs2 (R ¼ Pr, Nd, Dy, Tb, Ho, and Yb)
series of compounds. CeCuAs2 was not considered in these studies as this
material shows no evidence of any magnetic order for temperatures
down to 45 mK as reported in an earlier work [13]. We conﬁrm that all
the measured compounds share the same crystal structure, while the
magnetic structures are varied, including both commensurate and
incommensurate
(IC)
antiferromagnetic
orderings.
Based
on
the
observed magnetic diffraction patterns, we discuss the possible magnetic
structures, order parameters, and ordered magnetic moments for this
new class of intermetallic compounds.
* Corresponding author. NIST Center for Neutron Research, National Institute of Standards and Technology, Gaithersburg, MD 20899, USA.
E-mail address: yang.zhao@nist.gov (Y. Zhao).
1 Current address: Max Planck Institute for Chemical Physics of Solids, N€othnitzer Strasse 40, 01187, Dresden, Germany.
2 Visiting Scientist at Department of Chemistry IIT Delhi.
Contents lists available at ScienceDirect
Journal of Physics and Chemistry of Solids
journal homepage: www.elsevier.com/locate/jpcs
http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.jpcs.2017.07.004
Received 8 February 2017; Received in revised form 27 June 2017; Accepted 5 July 2017
Available online 6 July 2017
0022-3697/© 2017 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Journal of Physics and Chemistry of Solids 111 (2017) 1–7


---
# Page 2

2. Experiment details
Polycrystalline RCuAs2 samples were prepared by employing the
solid state synthesis technique. Powders of pure Cu and As and lumps of
rare earth metal (purity > 99.5%) were weighed and mixed thoroughly in
an argon ﬁlled glove box (with H2O, O2 < 0.1 μg/g). The mixture was
then sealed in evacuated quartz tubes under dynamic vacuum. The am-
poules were heated at 900 C for a week. After an intermediate grinding,
additional sintering under the same conditions was performed to obtain
homogenous good quality samples. The phase purity of all the samples
was checked by powder x-ray diffraction technique using Cu-Kα radiation
in the 2θ range of 10 to 70 at room temperature. Magnetization mea-
surements in the temperature range from 2 K to 300 K with applied
external magnetic ﬁeld of μ0H ¼ 0.5 T were performed on all the samples
using
a
Superconducting
Quantum
Interference
Device
(SQUID)
magnetometer.
Neutron diffraction experiments were carried out by using the BT1
high-resolution powder diffractometer and BT7 thermal triple-axis
spectrometer at National Institute of Standard and Technology (NIST)
Center for Neutron Research. All the polycrystalline samples of RCuAs2
(R ¼ Pr, Nd, Dy, Tb, Ho, and Yb) used for these neutron scattering
measurements weighed around 1 g. The samples were sealed in either
Aluminium (BT7) or Vanadium (BT1) cans and cooled to the base tem-
perature, which is around 0.4 K–2.5 K depending upon the type of the
cryogenics required. For measurements on BT1, the incident neutron
wavelength was λ ¼ 1.5397 Å using the Cu (311) monochromator and
collimations of 600–150 - 70 full-width-at-half-maximum (FWHM) before
and after the monochromator and after the sample, respectively. For
coarse-resolution/high-intensity diffraction measurements on BT7 the
incident neutron wavelength employed was λ ¼ 2.359 Å and the position
sensitive detector (PSD) was placed in the straight-through position to
cover around 5 in scattering 2θ angles, taking data in steps of 0.25 and
then binning the data to obtain the diffraction pattern [14]. PG ﬁlters
were employed along the neutron beam path before the monochromator
and after the sample to eliminate higher order wavelength contamina-
tions. Unless speciﬁed, the collimations used in BT7 measurements were
open - 800 - 800 radial (FWHM) along the neutron beam path before and
after the monochromator, and after sample, respectively. All the neutron
powder diffraction data have been reﬁned using the Rietveld method
with software suite FullProf [15]. Representation analysis was carried out
using the software SARAh [16] to determine the symmetry-consistent
irreducible representations (IRs) of the magnetic structures.
3. Results and discussion
3.1. Crystal structure
All the RCuAs2 compounds share the same crystal structure (ZrCuSi2
type with space group P4/nmm) shown in Fig. 1, conﬁrmed by Rietveld
reﬁnement results from neutron powder diffraction measurements. We
did not observe any indication of structural phase transitions in any of the
compounds in the temperature range from room temperature to the
lowest measured temperature. Detailed reﬁnement results are listed in
Table 1. The crystal structure contains a sequence of layers by means of
As(1) – R–As(2) – Cu - As(2) – R – As(1), where As(1) and As(2) are the two
inequivalent As-sites, with distorted edge-sharing Cu-As(2) tetrahedral
alternating with distorted As(1)-R-As(2) square antiprisms. The sites
reﬁned as fully occupied within uncertainties, and in the ﬁnal ﬁts, the
occupancies were ﬁxed at the fully occupied values. These results are
consistent with the previously reported x-ray powder diffraction mea-
surements on these materials [17–19]. We did notice that small amounts
of impurities (<5%), which are in the form of RAs and/or Cu3As/Cu5As2,
exist and were detected by neutron diffraction. However, for the crystal
structure reﬁnements, most of the impurity peaks are well separated from
the majority phase of RCuAs2 Bragg peaks and can be excluded from the
reﬁnement process. In addition, when an Al sample holder was employed
there were Al powder peaks. These peaks are well known and were co-
reﬁned
with
the
RCuAs2,
and
the
quoted
uncertainties
include
both effects.
3.2. Commensurate magnetic order in PrCuAs2, NdCuAs2, and DyCuAs2
We start our discussion with the data for PrCuAs2, NdCuAs2, and
DyCuAs2, which exhibit simple commensurate magnetic structures.
Fig. 2(a) shows representative neutron diffraction data measured on BT7
and Rietveld reﬁnement results for the powder PrCuAs2 sample collected
at 0.4 K and 10 K. For unpolarized neutrons the nuclear and magnetic
Bragg intensities simply add, and hence the nuclear Bragg peaks are
eliminated in the subtraction (assuming a negligible structural distortion
associated with the ordering), revealing the magnetic diffraction pattern.
Fig. 2(b)–(d) shows the subtracted intensities for PrCuAs2, NdCuAs2, and
DyCuAs2, which were collected below and well above the antiferro-
magnetic ordering temperature for each of these compounds. In the
angular range (18 < 2θ < 53) shown in Fig. 2b)-d), we ﬁnd magnetic
peaks that can be indexed as the Qmag ¼ Qstr þ (0, 0, 0.5) in reciprocal
lattice units (r. l. u.), where Qmag and Qstr are Bragg peak positions for the
magnetic and crystal structures, respectively. This establishes the mag-
netic propagation wave vector K as (0, 0, 0.5) for all three compounds. In
addition, the systematic absence of the magnetic Bragg peaks at the Q ¼
(0, 0, n þ 0.5) positions for PrCuAs2 (Fig. 2(b), where n ¼ 0, 1, 2 …,
Fig. 1. Crystal structure of RCuAs2 depicting the edge shared Cu – As(2) tetrahedron and
distorted As(1) – R – As(2) square antiprism. The solid (black) box marks the structural unit
cell. The ﬁgure was created using the VESTA program [22].
Table 1
Summary of the structure reﬁnement results for RCuAs2 at temperatures above the mag-
netic phase transition, TN. All the compounds share the same P4/nmm (# 129) space group,
and we did not observe any indication of structural distortions associated with the magnetic
transition.
Compounds PrCuAs2
NdCuAs2
TbCuAs2
DyCuAs2
HoCuAs2
YbCuAs2
Instrument
BT7
BT7
BT1
BT7
BT1
BT7
λ (Å)
2.359
2.359
1.5397
2.359
1.5397
2.359
T (K)
10
10
11
20
4.5
20
a(Å)
3.9806 (3) 3.9534 (4) 3.8818 (1) 3.908 (6) 3.8609 (1) 3.8414 (9)
c(Å)
10.065 (1) 10.029 (3) 9.8671 (4) 9.89 (3)
9.7997 (4) 9.729 (9)
R(z)a
0.246 (1)
0.241 (1)
0.2394 (5) 0.236 (7) 0.2368 (9) 0.231 (1)
As2(z)
0.3502 (6) 0.346 (1)
0.3381 (5) 0.38 (1)
0.333 (1)
0.332 (2)
a With R(z) and As2(z) as given above, the full set of the fractional coordinates of all the
atoms are: R (R ¼ Pr, Nd, Tb, Dy, Ho, and Yb): (0.25, 0.25, R(z)); As1: (0.75, 0.25, 0.0); As2:
(0.75, 0.75, As2(z)); and Cu: (0.75, 0.25, 0.5).
Y. Zhao et al.
Journal of Physics and Chemistry of Solids 111 (2017) 1–7
2


---
# Page 3

indicates that the magnetic moment direction of the Pr3þ is along the c-
axis, as only the magnetic component perpendicular to the momentum
transfer Q can contribute to the magnetic Bragg diffraction intensities.
The NdCuAs2 and DyCuAs2 data, on the other hand, show strong mag-
netic peaks at (0, 0, 1.5) (Fig. 2(c) and (d)), indicating that the ordered
moment direction is in the a-b plane. We remark that it is not possible to
determine the spin direction within the plane from powder neutron
diffraction due to the tetragonal crystal symmetry. The observed differ-
ence in the magnetic moment orientations in these three materials is
likely due to the crystal electrical ﬁeld (CEF) effects.
To solve the magnetic structure, magnetic representation analyses
were carried out with the software Sarah [16]. The decomposition of the
IRs for the R3þ ions with K ¼ (0, 0, 0.5) can be written as
ΓMag ¼ Γ1
2 þ Γ1
3 þ Γ2
9 þ Γ2
10. The basis vectors are listed in Table 2 and
the illustration for the magnetic structures for each of the IRs is shown in
Fig. 3. All four IRs can be considered as bilayer magnetic structures,
where within the a-b plane the spins are aligned ferromagnetically, while
the inter-plane interactions are alternating between ferromagnetic and
antiferromagnetic depending on going through the R-As(1)-R layers or R-
As(2)-Cu-As(2)-R layers. For Γ1
2 and Γ2
10, the antiferromagnetic coupling
happens between the R-As(1)-R layers, while R – As(2) – Cu –As(2)- R
shows ferromagnetic coupling. In contrast, Γ1
3 and Γ2
9 demonstrate
exactly the opposite behaviour. In addition, for Γ1
2 (Fig. 3(a)) and Γ1
3
(Fig. 3(b)), the ordered magnetic moment directions are along the c-axis,
while for Γ2
9 (Fig. 3(c)) and Γ2
10 (Fig. 3(d)), the ordered moments lie in
the a-b plane. Since we cannot determine the spin direction within a-b
plane solely based on the neutron powder diffraction results, for conve-
nience the spin directions were ﬁxed along [110] during the magnetic
structure reﬁnement for the Γ2
9 and Γ2
10 IRs.
Following the above discussion, since the magnetic moments of the Pr
ions point along the c-axis, only the Γ1
2 and Γ1
3 representations are
possible (Fig. 3(a) and (b)). For the Nd and Dy compounds the spins lie in
a-b plane, so only Γ2
9 and Γ2
10 can be the possible options (Fig. 3(c) and
(d)). Due to the powder average, Γ1
2 and Γ1
3 lead to virtually identical
combined diffraction intensities. As a result, it is extremely difﬁcult to
distinguish the differences of the calculated diffraction pattern in car-
rying out the Rietveld reﬁnement process. Even though the Γ1
3 repre-
sentation was indicative of slightly better ﬁt for PrCuAs2, and Γ2
10
representation was indicative of slightly better ﬁt for NdCuAs2, we
cannot completely rule out the possibility of the other magnetic structure
purely based on the neutron powder diffraction results. The ordered
magnetic moments given by the reﬁnements are listed in Table 3 for each
possibility. The ordered magnetic moment of Pr3þ at 0.4 K is either
1.15(6) μB or 1.17(6) μB for Γ1
2 or Γ1
3, respectively, which are identical
within the uncertainties. Note that the value of the ordered moment is
much reduced from the free-ion Pr-ion ordered magnetic moment of 3.2
μB (¼gJ) [1], indicating that there are signiﬁcant CEF effects that can
Fig. 2. (a) Neuron powder diffraction patterns of PrCuAs2 at T ¼ 0.4 K (blue circles,
vertically offset by 1000) and 10 K (green squares) collected on the BT7 instrument. The
solid (red) lines are the Rietveld reﬁnement results. The vertical bars are the Bragg Peak
positions for (from top to bottom) Al {111} and {200} from sample holder (red), PrCuAs2
structural (black), and magnetic (blue). (b)–(d) Magnetic (subtracted) diffraction patterns
for PrCuAs2, NdCuAs2, and DyCuAs2, respectively. The dashed (green) and solid (red) lines
are magnetic diffraction pattern calculations based on two different magnetic models. The
vertical bars are the magnetic Bragg peak positions for each of the compounds. The data
are plotted against 2θ (bottom) and corresponding Q values (top). Error bars in all ﬁgures
are statistical in origin and represent one standard deviation. (For interpretation of the
references to colour in this ﬁgure legend, the reader is referred to the web version of
this article.)
Table 2
Basis vectors (BVs) for the space group P4/nmm (#129) with K ¼ (0, 0, 0.5). The decom-
position of the magnetic representation for the R (R ¼ Pr, Nd, and Dy) site, including only
non-zero IRs, is ΓMag ¼ Γ1
2 þ Γ1
3 þΓ2
9 þΓ2
10. The atoms of the nonprimitive basis are
deﬁned according to 1: (0.25, 0.25, 0.246), 2: (0.75, 0.75, 0.754).
IR
BV Atom
BV components
ma
mb
mc
ima
imb
imc
Γ2
ψ1
1
0
0
8
0
0
0
2
0
0
8
0
0
0
Γ3
ψ2
1
0
0
8
0
0
0
2
0
0
8
0
0
0
Γ9
ψ3
1
4
0
0
0
0
0
2
4
0
0
0
0
0
ψ4
1
0
4
0
0
0
0
2
0
4
0
0
0
0
Γ10
ψ5
1
0
4
0
0
0
0
2
0
4
0
0
0
0
ψ6
1
4
0
0
0
0
0
2
4
0
0
0
0
0
Y. Zhao et al.
Journal of Physics and Chemistry of Solids 111 (2017) 1–7
3


---
# Page 4

change the magnetic ground-state from its free-ion 4f-electron conﬁgu-
ration. The Nd3þ ordered magnetic moments at 0.4 K are 3.2(1) μB and
3.0(1) μB for Γ2
9 and Γ2
10, respectively, again the same within the un-
certainties. Even though the Nd-ion ordered moments are close to the
free-ion values for Nd3þ of 3.27 μB, the CEF still can have similar
magnitude of effects. For DyCuAs2, both the structure and magnetic
Bragg peak intensities are much weaker due to the high absorption cross-
section from Dy. Therefore, we can only estimate that the ordered Dy3þ
magnetic moment at 2.5 K is 10(1) μB for either Γ2
9 or Γ2
10, virtually
identical to the free-ion value (10.0 μB) [1]. Further information on the
magnetic structure and unambiguous distinction between the different
magnetic models will require single crystal neutron diffraction mea-
surements if high quality single crystal samples become available in
the future.
Fig. 4 shows measurements of the integrated magnetic Bragg peak
intensities, proportional to the square of the antiferromagnetic order
parameter (sublattice magnetization), at (1, 0, 0.5) for PrCuAs2 and (0, 0,
1.5)
for
NdCuAs2
and
DyCuAs2,
respectively.
The
temperature-
independent data collected well above the Neel temperatures (TN)
were used as background and subtracted from the data. The integrated
intensities for each material smoothly emerge as the temperature drops
below the TN, indicating that the magnetic transition is 2nd order in
nature. The solid curves shown in Fig. 4 (a)–(c) are simple ﬁts using mean
ﬁeld theory to ﬁt the intensities, which are proportional to the square of
the ordered magnetic moment. The ﬁts give TN ¼ 6.4(2) K for PrCuAs2,
TN ¼ 3.54(5) K for NdCuAs2, and TN ¼ 10.1(2) K for DyCuAs2. The above
results are in very good agreement with the bulk magnetic property
measurements reported previously [10,11] and in this work as well
(not shown).
Fig. 3. Illustration of Irreducible representations of RCuAs2 (only R ions are displayed)
with K ¼ (0, 0, 0.5) as (a) Γ1
2, (b) Γ1
3, (c) Γ2
9, and (d) Γ2
10.
Table 3
The reﬁnement results of the ordered magnetic moments based on different IRs for
PrCuAs2, NdCuAs2, and DyCuAs2 at the lowest measured temperature.
Γ1
2 (μB)
Γ1
3 (μB)
Γ2
9 (μB)
Γ2
10 (μB)
Pr (0.4 K)
1.15(6)
1.17(6)
N/A
N/A
Nd (0.4 K)
N/A
N/A
3.2(1)
3.0(1)
Dy (2.5 K)
N/A
N/A
10(1)
10(1)
Fig. 4. Temperature dependence of the integrated magnetic Bragg peak intensities of (a)
PrCuAs2, (b) NdCuAs2, and (c) DyCuAs2. The solid (orange) curves show the mean ﬁeld
order parameter ﬁt results for each of these compounds. The vertical dashed (red) lines
indicate the ﬁtted TN ¼ 6.4(2) K for PrCuAs2, TN ¼ 3.54(5) K for the NdCuAs2, and
TN ¼ 10.1(2) K for the DyCuAs2. (For interpretation of the references to colour in this
ﬁgure legend, the reader is referred to the web version of this article.)
Y. Zhao et al.
Journal of Physics and Chemistry of Solids 111 (2017) 1–7
4


---
# Page 5

3.3. Incommensurate magnetic order in TbCuAs2 and HoCuAs2
Fig. 5 shows the structure and magnetic diffraction pattern of
TbCuAs2 and HoCuAs2 measured with the BT1 diffractometer. It is clear
that the patterns are considerably more complicated than for the previous
materials, with many magnetic Bragg peaks. None of these new Bragg
peaks could be indexed with commensurate propagation wave vectors,
clearly indicating that the magnetic structures are incommensurate.
Using the K-search program from FullProf suite, we cannot ﬁnd a unique
K-vector for the Tb compound. In particular, the double magnetic peaks
near 8 (0.55 and 0.60 Å1) and 16 (1.07 and 1.16 Å1) shown in
Fig. 5(b) preclude any possible solution for a single K-vector. After an
extensive search, we found two IC magnetic ordering K-vectors for Tb as
K1(Tb) ¼ (0.240,0.155,0.48) and K2(Tb) ¼ (0.205, 0.115, 0.28). The
magnetic peaks of TbCuAs2 (Fig. 5(b)) then can be indexed as 0.55 Å1:
(000) þ K1, 0.60 Å1: (001) – K2, 1.07 Å1: (002) – K1, 1.16 Å1: (002) –
K2, 1.46 Å1: (011) – K1. For the Ho system, on the other hand, we obtain
the unique result of K(Ho) ¼ (0.121, 0.041, 0.376), together with third
order harmonics (i.e. 3*K). The HoCuAs2 magnetic peaks (Fig. 5(d)) then
can be indexed as 0.31 Å1: (000) þ K, 0.84 Å1: (002) – 3*K, 0.91 Å1:
(001) þ K, 0.94 Å1: (000) þ3*K, 1.20 Å1: (102) – 3*K. The above K-
values explain the observed peak positions, with all three components
being incommensurate indicating a very complex magnetic structure. For
any choices, however, the calculated magnetic scattering intensities
cannot reproduce the observed magnetic Bragg peak intensities within
the uncertainties with either a simple sine wave, helix or square wave
models. Even with arbitrary components of the magnetic moments, we
were not able to obtain a completely satisfactory solution for the mag-
netic structure. Further progress in this work will likely require high
quality single crystal measurements.
Fig. 6 shows the order parameter measurements for the strongest
magnetic peaks of TbCuAs2 and HoCuAs2, measured on BT7. The
integrated intensities of these strong fundamental magnetic Bragg peaks
evolve smoothly and continuously with temperature, indicating that the
magnetic phase transition is 2nd order in nature. Mean-ﬁeld ﬁts of the
magnetic Bragg peak intensities give TN ¼ 9.44(7) K for TbCuAs2 and
TN ¼ 4.41(2) K for HoCuAs2, respectively. Fig. 7 shows a colour map of
this peak as a function of temperature for HoCuAs2, taken using an en-
ergy analyser and S€oller collimations of 250 before and after the sample.
We see that the scattering evolves smoothly with temperature without
any signiﬁcant broadening. More importantly, there is no signiﬁcant
variation in the position of the peak, so that the incommensurate wave
vector does not vary signiﬁcantly with temperature.
3.4. Absence of long range magnetic order in YbCuAs2
Fig. 8(a) shows the magnetic susceptibility measurements for the
YbCuAs2 powder sample, which are similar to those reported previously
[10]. This result is indicative of an antiferromagnetic phase transition
below TN ¼ 4 K. However, as seen in Fig. 8(b), the neutron powder
diffraction measurements of the YbCuAs2 sample on BT7 did not show
any additional Bragg peaks at T ¼ 1.5 K, well below the presumed
TN ¼ 4 K. Absence of any magnetic Bragg peak indicates either there is no
long range magnetic order down to 1.5 K, or the ordered magnetic
moment of Yb ions is smaller than our current experimental limit, ≈0.2
μB. It is noteworthy that the authors in Ref. [10] expressed their surprise
on the relatively high magnetic ordering temperature of the Yb-
compound. Our neutron powder diffraction results could indicate the
possibility that the anomalies in resistivity and magnetic susceptibility
measurements in YbCuAs2 are related to something else other than the
long range magnetic order, as for example, moment instability. There are
examples of Yb-compounds where Yb-ions have nearly the theoretical
paramagnetic moment but at low temperature the Yb-ions are non-
magnetic, for example in, YbMCu4 (M ¼ Ag and In) [20,21]. We
Fig. 5. (a) High resolution neutron powder diffraction pattern taken on BT1 of TbCuAs2 measured at T ¼ 2.5 K (blue closed circles, vertically offset by 1000) and 11 K (open green
squares). (b) Subtracted (magnetic) diffraction pattern of TbCuAs2. (c) High resolution neutron powder diffraction pattern of HoCuAs2 measured at T ¼ 1.5 K (blue closed circles, vertically
offset by 1000) and 4.6 K (open green squares). (d) Subtracted (magnetic) diffraction pattern of HoCuAs2. The solid (red) lines in (a) and (c) are the Rietveld structure reﬁnement results for
TbCuAs2 and HoCuAs2, respectively. The (red) “*” marks the Al powder peaks from the sample holder with 2θ ≈44.9 and 65.3. (For interpretation of the references to colour in this
ﬁgure legend, the reader is referred to the web version of this article.)
Y. Zhao et al.
Journal of Physics and Chemistry of Solids 111 (2017) 1–7
5


---
# Page 6

suspect a similar situation may occur in YbCuAs2. Investigations using
M€ossbauer or μSR techniques might be helpful to clarify this situation, or
again if single crystals of sufﬁcient size become available diffraction
measurements with more sensitivity could be carried out.
4. Crystal ﬁeld effects
The ordered magnetic moments that are well below the free-ion
values for some of these materials, the different magnetic moment di-
rections, and incommensurate magnetic structures for others all suggest
that crystal ﬁeld effects are likely important for these rare-earth systems.
Consequently, we have carried out inelastic neutron scattering mea-
surements on the Pr, Tb, Ho, and Yb samples to search for crystal electric
ﬁeld (CEF) excitations. The particular aim for these measurements was to
determine if there are low-lying CEF states that would be thermally
populated near and below TN and affect the occupancy of the ground
state CEF level and thereby the behaviour in ordered state, or in the case
of Yb result in a non-magnetic ground state. For these measurements, we
employed the BT7 instrument using horizontal focusing of the analyser
(since CEF excitations are dispersionless) with a ﬁxed ﬁnal energy
Ef ¼ 14.7 meV, with a PG ﬁlter in the scattered beam path to suppress
higher order contaminations. The collimation employed was 800 before
(open position) and after the monochromator, an 80-radial collimator
before the analyser, and no collimation after. The measured energy
Fig. 6. Temperature dependence of the integrated magnetic Bragg peak intensities of (a)
TbCuAs2 and (b) HoCuAs2, respectively, for two different ﬁrst-order peaks. The intensities
have been scaled to demonstrate that they obey the same temperature dependence. The
represented magnetic Bragg peaks occur in (a) TbCuAs2 at Q around 1.16 Å1 (closed
circles) and 1.46 Å1 (open squares), and in (b) HoCuAs2 at Q around 0.31 Å1 (closed
circles) and 0.91 Å1 (open squares), respectively. The solid (orange) curves show the
mean ﬁeld order parameter ﬁt results for each compound. The vertical dashed (red) lines
indicate the ﬁtted TN ¼ 9.44(7) K for (a) TbCuAs2, and TN ¼ 4.41(2) K for (b) HoCuAs2,
respectively. (For interpretation of the references to colour in this ﬁgure legend, the reader
is referred to the web version of this article.)
Fig. 7. Contour map of the magnetic Bragg peak intensity as a function of temperature at
a scattering angle around 6.7 for HoCuAs2. For these low-angle measurements we
employed an energy analyser and tighter collimation to improve the signal to noise. The
background scattering at high temperature has been subtracted. Note that there is no
signiﬁcant change in the wave vector of the incommensurate order, nor is there signiﬁcant
broadening of the scattering in the vicinity of the phase transition.
Fig. 8. (a)Plot of low temperature susceptibility (black squares) for YbCuAs2 and its in-
verse measured (blue circles) with an applied external magnetic ﬁeld of μ0H ¼ 0.5 T. The
peak in the susceptibility at 4 K indicates the magnetic phase transition (TN). (Note that 1
emu/(mol∙Oe) ¼ 4π  106 m3/mol). (b) Diffraction pattern at 1.5 K (blue circles,
vertically offset by 1000) and 20 K (green squares). The diamond (red) shows the intensity
difference between 1.5 K and 20 K, which does not reveal any magnetic Bragg peaks. The
solid (black) lines are the structure reﬁnement results. (For interpretation of the references
to colour in this ﬁgure legend, the reader is referred to the web version of this article.)
Y. Zhao et al.
Journal of Physics and Chemistry of Solids 111 (2017) 1–7
6


---
# Page 7

resolution at the elastic position then was 1.4 meV FWHM. Energy
transfers were measured from the elastic position up to 30 meV at a
number of Q positions within the range from 2.35 Å1 to 3.5 Å1 for
selected temperatures above TN. However, we could not identify any CEF
excitations in this energy range for any of the measured samples. This
suggests that either the observable CEF levels occur above 30 meV, or
they are too broad to be observed. There could also be CEF levels at low
energies within the instrumental resolution, in the range below
~0.5 meV, but it is unlikely that all the CEF levels are in this range for all
the materials investigated. These results are in contrast to the previous
theoretical predictions of CEF excitations [12], for example the predicted
three low-lying state for Tb ions at 2.62, 2.96, and 6.25 meV above the
ground state.
5. Conclusion
We have carried out systematic neutron diffraction studies on the
intermetallic polycrystalline samples of RCuAs2 with R ¼ Pr, Nd, Dy, Tb,
Ho, and Yb. We observed long range magnetic order in all the compounds
except YbCuAs2, with Neel temperatures of 10 K or below. As inferred
from the temperature dependence of the order parameters, the magnetic
phase transition are all continuous (second-order) in nature within the
uncertainties of the measurements. We have successfully solved the
magnetic structures for the PrCuAs2, NdCuAs2, and DyCuAs2, which all
have the same commensurate ordering wave-vector K ¼ (0, 0, 0.5). For
PrCuAs2, the magnetic moments are parallel to the crystal c-axis, whereas
in NdCuAs2 and DyCuAs2 the magnetic moments lie in the a-b plane. In
addition, the ordered magnetic moment for PrCuAs2 is much reduced
from the free-ion value, while for NdCuAs2 and DyCuAs2, the ordered
magnetic moments are close to their free-ions values. These differences in
the magnetic moment orientation as well as the value of the ordered
moments likely originates from the CEF effects. The TbCuAs2 and
HoCuAs2 systems have much more complicated incommensurate magnetic
structures.
The
ordering
wave-vectors
for
TbCuAs2
are
(0.240,0.155,0.48) and (0.205, 0.115, 0.28), while for HoCuAs2 there is
a unique ordering vector of (0.121, 0.041, 0.376) with the 3rd order
harmonics. Nevertheless, the magnetic structure reﬁnement using the
above IC wave-vectors cannot fully reproduce the intensities of the
magnetic Bragg peaks and consequently a complete solution to the
magnetic structures has not been obtained. Considering the complexity of
the neutron powder diffraction data, measurements on high quality
single crystals become essential for the determination of possible mag-
netic models for TbCuAs2 and HoCuAs2. The absence of any clear mag-
netic Bragg peaks in YbCuAs2 implies no long range magnetic ordering
down to 1.5 K, or an ordered below the limit of 0.2 μB. One possibility is
that the Yb CEF ground state is non-magnetic. We were not able to detect
any crystal ﬁeld levels for any of these materials in the energy range from
~0.5 meV to 30 meV, indicating that the levels are too broad to observe
or lie at higher/lower energies. Further neutron studies on single crystals
of these materials would be helpful to clarify certain details of the
magnetic structures and the associated spin dynamics.
Acknowledgements
AKG thanks DST (Govt. of India) for funding. GST and ZH thank CSIR
and UGC respectively for fellowships. The authors at IIT Delhi thank DST
for providing the SQUID facility. The author Y.Z. would like to thank Q.
Huang for fruitful discussions. The identiﬁcation of any commercial
product or trade names does not imply endorsement or recommendation
by the National Institute of Standards and Technology.
References
[1] K. Buschow, Intermetallic compounds of rare earths and non-magnetic metals, Rep.
Prog. Phys. 42 (1979) 1373–1477, http://dx.doi.org/10.1088/0034-4885/42/8/
003.
[2] C. Pﬂeiderer, Superconducting phases of f-electron compounds, Rev. Mod. Phys. 81
(2009) 1551–1624, http://dx.doi.org/10.1103/RevModPhys.81.1551.
[3] W. Thomlinson, G. Shirane, J.W. Lynn, D.E. Moncton, Neutron scattering studies of
magnetic ordering in ternary superconductors, in: M.B. Maple, Ø. Fischer (Eds.),
Supercond. Ternary Compd. II, Springer, Berlin Heidelberg, 1982, pp. 229–248,
http://dx.doi.org/10.1007/978-3-642-81894-3_8.
[4] S.-W. Cheong, M. Mostovoy, Multiferroics: a magnetic twist for ferroelectricity, Nat.
Mater 6 (2007) 13–20, http://dx.doi.org/10.1038/nmat1804.
[5] R. Ramesh, N.A. Spaldin, Multiferroics: progress and prospects in thin ﬁlms, Nat.
Mater 6 (2007) 21–29, http://dx.doi.org/10.1038/nmat1805.
[6] W.D. Ratcliff II, J.W. Lynn, Chapter 5-multiferroics, in: F. Fernandez-Alonso,
D.L. Price (Eds.), Neutron Scatt. - Magn. Quantum Phenom., Academic Press, 2015,
pp. 291–338, http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/B978-0-12-802049-4.00005-1.
[7] G.R. Stewart, Heavy-fermion systems, Rev. Mod. Phys. 56 (1984) 755–787, http://
dx.doi.org/10.1103/RevModPhys.56.755.
[8] J.W. Lynn, S. Skanthakumar, Chapter 199 Neutron scattering studies of lanthanide
magnetic ordering, in: K.A. Gschneidner, J.L. Eyring, M.B. Maple (Eds.), Handb.
Phys. Chem. Rare Earths, North Holland, Amsterdam, 2001, pp. 315–350, http://
dx.doi.org/10.1016/S0168-1273(01)31008-5.
[9] J. Paglione, R.L. Greene, High-temperature superconductivity in iron-based
materials, Nat. Phys. 6 (2010) 645–658, http://dx.doi.org/10.1038/nphys1759.
[10] E. Sampathkumaran, K. Sengupta, S. Rayaprol, K. Iyer, T. Doert, J. Jemetio,
Enhanced electrical resistivity before Neel order in the metals RCuAs2 (R¼Sm, Gd,
Tb, and Dy), Phys. Rev. Lett. 91 (2003) 36603, http://dx.doi.org/10.1103/
PhysRevLett.91.036603.
[11] K. Sengupta, S. Rayaprol, E.V. Sampathkumaran, T. Doert, J.P.F. Jemetio, Magnetic
and transport anomalies in the compounds, RCuAs2 (R¼Pr, Nd, Sm, Gd, Tb, Dy, Ho,
and Er), Phys. B Condens. Matter 348 (2004) 465–474, http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/
j.physb.2004.01.152.
[12] A. Chatterji, R. Chatterjee, A crystal ﬁeld investigation of the properties of RCuAs2
(R¼Pr, Nd, Sm, Tb, Dy, Ho, Er and Yb), Phys. B Condens. Matter 403 (2008)
3067–3076, http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.physb.2008.03.007.
[13] K. Sengupta, E.V. Sampathkumaran, T. Nakano, M. Hedo, M. Abliz, N. Fujiwara,
Y. Uwatoko, S. Rayaprol, K. Shigetoh, T. Takabatake, T. Doert, J.P.F. Jemetio,
Magnetic, electrical resistivity, heat-capacity, and thermopower anomalies in
CeCuAs2, Phys. Rev. B 70 (2004) 64406, http://dx.doi.org/10.1103/
PhysRevB.70.064406.
[14] J.W. Lynn, Y. Chen, S. Chang, Y. Zhao, S. Chi, W. Ratcliff II, B.G. Ueland,
R.W. Erwin, Double-focusing thermal Triple-Axis spectrometer at the NCNR, J. Res.
Natl. Inst. Stand. Technol. 117 (2012) 60, http://dx.doi.org/10.6028/jres.117.002.
[15] J. Rodríguez-Carvajal, Recent advances in magnetic structure determination by
neutron powder diffraction, Phys. B Condens. Matter 192 (1993) 55–69, http://
dx.doi.org/10.1016/0921-4526(93)90108-I.
[16] A. Wills, A new protocol for the determination of magnetic structures using
simulated annealing and representational analysis (SARAh), Phys. B Condens.
Matter. 276–278 (2000) 680–681, http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/S0921-4526(99)
01722-6.
[17] J.-P. Jemetio Feudjio, T. Doert, P. B€ottcher, Reﬁnement of the crystal structure of
ﬁve ternary arsenides, YCuAs2, TbCuAs2, DyCuAs2, ErCuAs2 and TmCuAs2,
Zeitschrift Für Krist.New Cryst. Struct. 217 (2002), http://dx.doi.org/10.1524/
ncrs.2002.217.1.455.
[18] J.-P. Jemetio, T. Doert, O. Rademacher, P. B€ottcher, On LnCu1þδAs2 compounds,
J. Alloy. Compd. 338 (2002) 93–98, http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/S0925-8388(02)
00220-7.
[19] M. Wang, R. McDonald, A. Mar, Nonstoichiometric rare-earth copper arsenides
RECu1þxAs2 (RE¼La, Ce, Pr), J. Solid State Chem. 147 (1999) 140–145, http://
dx.doi.org/10.1006/jssc.1999.8197.
[20] J.M. Lawrence, S.M. Shapiro, J.L. Sarrao, Z. Fisk, Inelastic neutron scattering in
single-crystal YbInCu4, Phys. Rev. B 55 (1997) 14467–14472, http://dx.doi.org/
10.1103/PhysRevB.55.14467.
[21] J.M. Lawrence, P.S. Riseborough, C.H. Booth, J.L. Sarrao, J.D. Thompson,
R. Osborn, Slow crossover in YbXCu4 (X ¼Ag, Cd, In, Mg, Tl, Zn) intermediate,
Phys. Rev. B 63 (2001) 54427, http://dx.doi.org/10.1103/PhysRevB.63.054427.
[22] K. Momma, F. Izumi, VESTA 3 for three-dimensional visualization of crystal,
volumetric and morphology data, J. Appl. Crystallogr. 44 (2011) 1272–1276,
http://dx.doi.org/10.1107/S0021889811038970.
Y. Zhao et al.
Journal of Physics and Chemistry of Solids 111 (2017) 1–7
7


---
