# Page 1

Contents lists available at ScienceDirect
Journal of Crystal Growth
journal homepage: www.elsevier.com/locate/jcrysgro
Floating zone growth of α-Na0.90MnO2 single crystals
Rebecca Dallya,b, Raphaële J. Clémentc, Robin Chisnelld, Stephanie Taylorb, Megan Butalab,
Vicky Doan-Nguyene,f, Mahalingam Balasubramaniang, Jeﬀrey W. Lynnd, Clare P. Greyc,
Stephen D. Wilsonb,⁎
a Department of Physics, Boston College, Chestnut Hill, MA 02467, USA
b Materials Department, University of California, Santa Barbara, CA 93106-5050, USA
c Department of Chemistry, University of Cambridge, Lensﬁeld Road, Cambridge CB2 1EW, United Kingdom
d NIST Center for Neutron Researrch, National Institute of Standards and Technology, Gaithersburg, MD 20899, USA
e California NanoSystems Institute, University of California, Santa Barbara, CA 93106, USA
f Materials Research Laboratory, University of California, Santa Barbara, CA 93106, USA
g Advanced Photon Source, Argonne National Laboratory, 9700 S. Cass Avenue, Argonne, IL 60439, USA
A R T I C L E I N F O
Keywords:
A1 Characterization
A2 Floating zone technique
A2 Single crystal growth
B1 Manganites
A B S T R A C T
Single crystal growth of α-NaxMnO2 (x=0.90) is reported via the ﬂoating zone technique. The conditions
required for stable growth and intergrowth-free crystals are described along with the results of trials under
alternate growth atmospheres. Chemical and structural characterizations of the resulting α-Na0.90MnO2 crystals
are performed using ICP-AES NMR, XANES, XPS, and neutron diﬀraction measurements. As a layered
transition metal oxide with large ionic mobility and strong correlation eﬀects, α-NaxMnO2 is of interest to many
communities, and the implications of large volume, high purity, single crystal growth are discussed.
1. Introduction
Two-dimensional layered transition metal oxides of the form ABO2
(A=alkali metal, B=transition metal) have drawn the attention of
scientists from a variety of backgrounds due to their wide array of
novel electronic and functional properties. For instance, in the realm of
novel cathode materials, α-NaxMnO2 (α-NMO) with the monoclinic
NaNiO2 structure type is widely studied as a potential Na-based
cathode platform due to its superior cycling performance and operating
potential [1,2]. At the same time, α-NMO also holds interest for
researchers in the area of fundamental condensed matter physics due
to its underlying anisotropic triangular lattice of Mn3+ moments and its
rich electronic phase diagram accessible via deintercalation [3]. While
small volume crystals of the α-NMO system have been produced via
hydrothermal and sealed crucible techniques [4,5], high purity ﬂoating
zone (FZ) growth of large volume crystals has remained elusive. This is
primarily due to the challenge of dual Na and Mn volatility during
growth as well as two competing polymorphic forms for NMO, namely
α-NMO and β-NaMnO2 (β-NMO), with very close energetics [6–9]. The
successful synthesis of large volume FZ grown crystals of the form
ABO2, such as NaxCoO2 [10–13], have historically provided access to
deeper experimental insights. The current absence of high purity, large
volume FZ crystals of α-NMO presents an impasse to the community's
understanding of this system's rich phase behavior, where recent
studies have been limited to polycrystalline specimens [3,7,14–17].
α-NMO is composed of alternating layers of two-dimensional
manganese oxide and sodium sheets as shown in Fig. 1. It crystallizes
in the monoclinic C2/m spacegroup with an O3 layering sequence
where Na ions occupy octahedrally coordinated sites between the
MnO6 layers. MnO6 octahedra within these layers form an edge sharing
triangular lattice where the Mn3+ cations undergo a large, cooperative
Jahn-Teller distortion [14]. This results in an anisotropic triangular
lattice of manganese cations in the high-spin S=2 state and a (d4, t
e
g g
2
3
1)
electronic conﬁguration. In contrast, the β polymorph is made up of
alternating zigzag-like layers of Na and MO2 sheets and has orthor-
hombic symmetry (Pnmn space group). The removal of Na from the α
polymorph provides a means of hole doping, which introduces Mn4+
cations and locally relaxes the Jahn-Teller distortion in the manganese
oxide planes. This can lead to a rich interplay between Na ion/vacancy
ordering, charge ordering, magnetic correlations, and Jahn-Teller
lattice distortions as the Na-site occupancy is tuned [3]. While studies
of this interplay in α-NMO are just beginning, detailed investigations of
single crystal specimens are notably lacking. Successful FZ crystal
growth was previously harnessed to explore and gain considerable
physical insight into the structurally related NaxCoO2 system [18],
suggesting a similar approach for the crystal growth of α-NMO.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.jcrysgro.2016.12.010
Received 2 September 2016; Received in revised form 17 November 2016; Accepted 1 December 2016
⁎ Corresponding author at: Materials Department, University of California, Santa Barbara, CA 93106-5050, USA.
E-mail address: stephendwilson@engineering.ucsb.edu (S.D. Wilson).
Journal of Crystal Growth 459 (2017) 203–208
Available online 03 December 2016
0022-0248/ © 2016 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
MARK


---
# Page 2

Here we report the FZ growth of single crystals of α-NMO with
x=0.90. While α-NMO is prone to disorder from stacking faults (SF)
and intergrowths of the competing polymorph β-NMO—both of which
originate from the tendency of the structure to twin [6–8]—by tailoring
the crystal growth speed we were able to mitigate this intergrowth
contamination. Speciﬁcally, 23Na nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR)
measurements characterizing the degree of structural faulting demon-
strate that the growth rate correlates to the relative phase fractions of
α- and β- polymorphs and the number of stacking faults within the
resulting crystals. This fact, along with neutron powder and single
crystal diﬀraction data, show that the optimized, large volume α-NMO
crystals are free of both local and long-range β-phase intergrowths with
a good quality mosaic. Combined x-ray absorption near edge spectro-
scopy (XANES), x-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS), and induc-
tively coupled plasma atomic emission spectroscopy (ICP-AES) data
determine the stoichiometry of crystals grown under optimal condi-
tions to be Na
MnO
0.90
2. Our work opens the α-NMO system to new
avenues of investigation via single crystal studies harnessing a variety
of experimental techniques, such as neutron scattering where large
volume single crystals are required.
2. Experimental details
2.1. Powder synthesis and crystal growth
Starting powders were prepared from Na2CO3 and MnCO3 powders
(Alfa Aesar, Puratronic® 99.997% and 99.985%, respectively). The
powders were mixed with a 1:1 molar ratio, plus 10% weight excess of
Na2CO3 to account for sodium loss during synthesis. The mixed powder
was sintered in an alumina crucible at 350 °C for 15 h, reground and
then sintered at 750 °C for 15 h. The powder was then reground,
formed into a rod with a diameter of 5 mm, and pressed at 50,000 psi
in an isostatic press. The pressed rod was then sintered in a vertical
furnace at 1000 °C for 15 h and then quenched in air. At this point in
the synthesis process, the polycrystalline rod is comprised of a majority
of β-NMO. We note here that quenching was used as a preventative
measure to avoid decomposition of the rod into mixed phases, and the
eﬀect of alternatively slow cooling the sintered feed rod is not explored
here. The polycrystalline sintered β-rod was then cut and used as both
the feed rod and as a polycrystalline seed for ﬂoating zone growth in a
four mirror optical ﬂoating zone furnace with 500 W halogen lamps
(Crystal Systems Corp. Model FZ-T-10000-H-VI-VPO-I-HR-PC). A 4:1
ratio of Ar:O2 was used to pressurize the chamber to 0.15 MPa in order
to help mitigate Na volatility, and gases were ﬂowed through the
growth chamber at rates of 80 SCCM and 20 SCCM for Ar and O2,
respectively. Once grown and cooled, crystals were immediately
transferred to an Ar-ﬁlled glovebox for storage and further analysis.
2.2. Inductively coupled plasma atomic emission spectroscopy (ICP-
AES)
To determine sodium and manganese concentrations in α-NMO
crystals and polycrystalline samples, ICP-AES measurements were
performed in a Thermo iCap 6300. Samples for analysis were prepared
by ﬁrst massing the starting materials on a 0.01 mg resolution balance
and then dissolving the crystals in concentrated trace metals grade
hydrochloric acid (High-Purity Standards). Heat was applied via a hot
water bath over a hotplate to the samples in a closed container
containing HCl until no particulates could be seen and the solution
became clear. This reduced the room temperature dissolution time in
HCl from 4 to 10 days to only 1–3 h. Upon cooling, the dissolved
sodium manganese oxide was diluted with deionized water to obtain a
5% HCl matrix. Instrument calibrations for Na and Mn were done
using blank, low, and high PPM solutions within a 5% HCl matrix,
which were prepared using standard analysis grade solutions of Na
(1000 μg/mL in 1% HCl) and Mn (1000 μg/mL in 2% HCl) from High-
Purity Standards.
2.3. 23Na solid-state NMR (ssNMR)
23Na ssNMR spectra were acquired at room temperature on a
Bruker Advance III 200 wide-bore spectrometer (4.7 T external
magnetic ﬁeld) at a Larmor frequency of −53.0 MHz. All NMR
experiments were performed under 60 kHz magic angle spinning
(MAS) using a 1.3 mm double-resonance HX probe and a recycle delay
of 30 ms. 23Na NMR data were acquired on ﬁnely ground samples of
single crystal NMO. 23Na NMR chemical shifts were referenced against
solid 23NaCl at 7.21 ppm. 23Na spin echo NMR spectra were acquired
using a 90° radiofrequency (RF) pulse of 1.03 μs and a 180° RF pulse of
2.06 μs at 25.04 W. Transverse (T ′
2 ) relaxation times were obtained
from an exponential ﬁt of the decay of the signal intensity obtained as
the echo delay was increased in an NMR spin echo pulse sequence.
2.4. X-Ray absorption near edge spectroscopy (XANES)
XANES data were taken at beamline 20-BM-B at the Advanced
Photon Source at Argonne National Laboratory with an incident energy
tuned to the Mn K-edge. Single crystals of NMO were ﬁnely ground and
a thin, uniform layer of powder was sealed between pieces of kapton
tape under an inert environment. The standards used, LiMn2O4 and
Mn2O3, were prepared in a similar manner. Data were deglitched,
calibrated, and normalized using the software Athena [19]. Mn foil was
used as a reference, and a simultaneous spectrum of the foil was
collected in transmission mode during each run of the sample and
standards. Calibrations to each data set were made by matching the
absorption edge of the Mn foil to 6539 eV and then shifting the data set
by that amount [20].
2.5. X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS)
Data were taken using a Kratos Axis Ultra X-ray Photoelectron
Spectroscopy system with a pass energy of 40 eV and step size of
0.1 eV. Data were analyzed using the splitting of the Mn 3s peak, which
Fig. 1. The structure of monoclinic α-NaMnO2 is illustrated via projections of the (a) ab-
plane and the (b) ac-plane, with the unit cell outlined in black for both ﬁgures. Panel (a)
shows just a single plane of the manganese cations and panel (b) shows the MnO6
polyhedra as shaded purple regions, oxygen atoms as orange spheres, and Na atoms as
green spheres. (For interpretation of the references to color in this ﬁgure legend, the
reader is referred to the web version of this article.)
R. Dally et al.
Journal of Crystal Growth 459 (2017) 203–208
204


---
# Page 3

is a result of the exchange coupling between 3s holes and 3d electrons.
The NMO spectrum was corrected using a Shirley background and
peaks were ﬁt to a Gaussian-Lorentzian line shape.
2.6. Neutron diﬀraction measurements
Neutron powder diﬀraction data were collected using the BT-1
neutron powder diﬀractometer at the NIST Center for Neutron
Research (NCNR). A Cu(311) monochromator with a 90° take-oﬀ
angle, λ = 1.5397(2) Å, and in-pile collimation of 60′ 60′were used.
Data were collected over the 2θ range of 3-168° with a step size of
0.05°. About 3 g of crystal from a single growth run was ground and
sealed in a vanadium container of length 50 mm and diameter 9.2 mm
inside a dry He-ﬁlled glovebox. A ﬁt to the data was calculated using
the Le Bail reﬁnement [21] option in FullProf [22].
The triple-axis instrument BT-7 [23] at NCNR was used to
demonstrate the mosaic of the typical crystals using a vertically focused
PG(002) monochromator and an incident energy of 14.7 meV. A single
crystal of ∼0.5 g was aligned in the HK0 plane using open–25′–25′–
120′ collimators placed before the monochromator, before the sample,
after the sample, and before the detector, respectively. Uncertainties
where indicated represent one standard deviation.
3. Results and discussion
A number of varying growth speeds and translation rates were
attempted with key results summarized in Table 1. The optimal growth
conditions for phase pure α-NMO were found to be a 20 mm/h mirror
translation rate, 2 mm/h feed rod translation rate, 30 rpm seed rod
rotation, and 20 rpm feed rod rotation. Under these conditions,
attempts to seed from a previously grown α-NMO crystal were
unsuccessful, likely due to substantial decomposition (i.e. Na loss) of
the seed crystal during the initial heating process. However, seeding
from a polycrystalline rod was able to repeatedly nucleate a single grain
crystal after ≈4 cm of growth. Facets form readily after the start of
growth leading to the formation of a single domain within 4 cm,
negating the need for a seed crystal. Speciﬁcally, a stable molten zone
which leads to α-phase growth with minimal stacking faults (the
determination of which is discussed later) was achieved by starting
mirror translation at 50 mm/h from the initial polycrystalline seed and
then stepping it down gradually toward 20 mm/h, where steady state
growth was performed. We note that our attempts at seeding growth at
this eventual lower growth rate failed to maintain a stable molten zone.
This is illustrated in Fig. 2, where the boule's cross section becomes
more elliptical in shape with ﬂat facets forming perpendicular to the
direction of seed translation at the point where a stable molten zone
was achieved at 20 mm/h. These perpendicular facets are oriented
along the (−101) lattice plane, and the crystal growth direction is along
the short b-axis. Substantial evaporation of both Na and Mn occurred
during FZ growth, and depositions composed of a mixture of Na and
Mn oxides built up on the inner quartz walls of the growth chamber.
We found it necessary to increase the power of the lamps slightly over
the course of growth (≈1–2%) to compensate for the decreasing
transparency of the tube.
ICP-AES analysis of samples grown at a rate of 20 mm/h indicated
a Na:Mn ratio of 0.90:1. We note here that the absolute values of the
measured Na and Mn content in our samples also matched the
reported ratios (i.e. the measured Mn content was stoichiometric
within experimental error), and that various sections of the rod were
tested to check for consistency. The portions of the crystals grown
under the stepped down growth rates showed uniform Na content
across each crystal. The results are summarized as Na:Mn ratios in
Table 1 for a series of representative samples as well as the starting
polycrystalline feed rod. As a further step, the relative fraction of Mn3+
versus Mn4+ was probed via XANES measurements, which when
combined with ICP-AES results are capable of resolving substantial
oxygen non-stoichiometry. XANES data (Fig. 3(a)) on a 20 mm/h
grown crystal show the white-line peak position close to that of the
Mn2O3 standard with an oxidation state of Mn3+. There is, however, a
resolvable shift of the NMO spectrum toward the LiMn2O4 standard
with an average valence of Mn3.5+, consistent with the known Na
deﬁciency of the sample.
The pre-edge region of the XANES spectra is associated with
transitions from the 1s states to the split t2g and eg d-orbitals, resulting
in varying peak shapes for Mn4+ and Mn3+ cations in varying local
environments [24]. A double peak structure in this energy range is
conventionally indicative of Mn4+ and a single broad peak is associated
with Jahn-Teller distorted MnO6 octahedra [25,26]. The double peak is
resolvable in the Mn3.5+ LiMn2O4 standard as shown in the inset of
Fig. 3(a), but is not in the α-NMO sample, again, indicating the
majority of manganese in the sample is Mn3+. We therefore performed
XPS measurements in order to gain a more quantitative understanding
of the manganese valence state. There exists a linear relationship
between the manganese oxidation state and the exchange splitting of
the Mn 3s peak,
E
Δ
s
3 where V
E
= 7.875 −0.893Δ
Mn
s
3 [27,28]. Using this
relation to evaluate the Mn valence for a typical α −Na MnO
x
δ
2 ±
crystal
grown at 20 mm/h, the data shown Fig. 3(b) reveal
E
Δ
= 5.38 eV
s
3
,
which corresponds to an average Mn valence of +3.07 ± 0.04. The
combined XPS and ICP-AES analysis of optimal α-phase crystals
determines the oxygen to be stoichiometric within error.
The lattice structure of α-NMO crystals was veriﬁed by cutting a
crystal from the end of the growth boule, crushing the crystal into
powder, and then performing neutron powder diﬀraction. Neutron
powder data collected at 300 K are shown in Fig. 4(a) and can be fully
indexed to the reported α-NMO space group, C
m
2/
, with Le Bail reﬁned
lattice parameters a = 5.6672 Å± 0.0003 Å, b = 2.8606 Å± 0.0001 Å,
c = 5.8007 Å± 0.0003 Å, and β = 113.143 ° ± 0.003°. Separate single
Table 1
Summary of growth trials using varying crystal pull rates and growth environments.
Compositional analyses of crystals grown under each condition as well as the
polycrystalline feed material are also summarized.
Sample
Na:Mn (molar
ratio)
α/SF/
β (%)
Growth Rate
Atmosphere
Pressure
starting
powders
1:1+10 wt%
excess Na2CO3
–
n/a
n/a
n/a
β-rod
1.04:1
6 / 37
/ 57
n/a
ambient
ambient
crystal 1
0.90:1
96 / 4
/ <1
20 mm/h
4:1 Ar/O2
0.15 MPa
crystal 2
0.94:1
15 /
19 /
66
50 mm/h
4:1 Ar/O2
0.15 MPa
crystal 3
0.75:1
–
20 mm/h
1:1 Ar/O2
0.15 MPa
Fig. 2. As grown α −Na
MnO
0.90
2 crystal. Stable crystal growth begins after ≈4 cm of
translation, where there is a visible change in shape. The inset shows a close-up of the ﬂat
(−101) facet that was formed during stable growth.
R. Dally et al.
Journal of Crystal Growth 459 (2017) 203–208
205


---
# Page 4

crystal neutron diﬀraction measurements on a crystal observed only a
single grain with an observed full-with-at-half-maximum (FWHM) of
0.41° ± 0.01° as plotted in Fig. 4(b), which after correction for the
instrumental resolution indicates a mosaic spread of 0.35°. Together
these measurements establish the long-range ordered lattice structure
of crystals grown under optimal conditions to phase pure α-NMO
single crystals; however, they are not directly sensitive to local inter-
growths of β-NMO which may arise as a series of stacking faults within
the O3 layered structure.
To investigate the presence of local intergrowths of β-NMO and
stacking faults within the lattice of α-NMO crystals, 23Na solid-state
NMR (ssNMR) data were collected with results plotted in Fig. 5. If a
number of 23Na resonant frequencies are resolved in the NMR spectra
collected on crushed α-NMO crystals, it suggests the presence of
multiple chemical environments reﬂective of the formation of stacking
faults (twin planes) between nanodomains of the α and β polymorphs
of NMO. While structural intergrowths and the formation of stacking
faults between the α- and β-polymorphs of NMO have been reported
previously [6–8], quantifying their relative abundance across a macro-
scopic sample presents a challenge. Recently, a 23Na NMR study of β-
NMO identiﬁed three resonances with isotropic shifts of ca. 750, 530
and 320 ppm and assigned them to Na nuclei in α-NMO domains, in β-
NMO domains, and Na atoms in the direct vicinity of localized stacking
faults, respectively [8]. This assignment was conﬁrmed by recent ﬁrst
principles calculations of Na NMR parameters in various NMO
structures containing twin planes between α - and β -type structural
domains [9]. In the present work, we use these assignments to quantify
the proportion of Na nuclei in these three diﬀerent regions within our
FZ grown NMO crystals.
Relative fractions of Na site occupations were determined by
integration of spin echo spectra shown in Fig. 5, and contributions
from individual Na sites were scaled by a transverse relaxation factor
accounting for the loss of NMR signal intensity over the signal
acquisition time. Fig. 5(b) was collected on a crystal grown at
20 mm/h and indicates the dominance of a single Na crystallographic
Fig.
3. (a)
XANES
data
show
the
spectra
collected
for
a
20 mm/h
grown
α −Na
MnO
0.90
2 sample and standards at the Mn K-edge, and the inset details the pre-
edge region of the spectra. (b) XPS data collected on a α −Na
MnO
0.90
2 sample showing
the multiplet splitting of the Mn 3s peak, which exhibits a ΔE = 5.38 eV, corresponding to
an average valence of Mn3.07+.
Fig. 4. a) Neutron powder diﬀraction data and corresponding Le Bail reﬁnement for a
crushed single crystal of α −Na
MnO
0.90
2 (b) Bulk averaged mosaic of a crystal shown
through the rocking curve collected at the (200) nuclear Bragg peak of a typical crystal of
α −Na
MnO
0.90
2.
Solid
line
shows
a
Gaussian
ﬁt
to
the
peak
of
the
form
⎛
⎝
⎜⎜
⎛
⎝⎜
⎞
⎠⎟
⎞
⎠
⎟⎟
I
exp
∝
−
x
x
w
1
2
−0
2
and where the FWHM
w
ln
= 2
2
(2) deﬁnes the mosaic, which after
taking into account the instrumental resolution deﬁnes the intrinsic mosaic spread of the
crystal.
Fig. 5. 23Na ssNMR spectra obtained at room temperature at 4.7 T on two samples of
single crystal NMO grown at diﬀerent rates. The peaks corresponding to Na nuclei in α-
NaMnO2 domains (Na α), in β-NaMnO2 domains (Na β), and in the vicinity of a stacking
fault (Na SF), are shown on the ﬁgure. Spinning sidebands due to fast sample rotation are
indicated by (*).
R. Dally et al.
Journal of Crystal Growth 459 (2017) 203–208
206


---
# Page 5

environment where ca. 96% of Na in the sample resides in an α-NMO
environment with a small percentage (ca. 4%) of Na near stacking
faults. A nearly negligible fraction (<1%) of Na in β-like environments
indicates local β-NMO regions. This demonstrates that the lattice
structure of crystals grown at the lowest rate of 20 mm/h is largely free
of faulting and that the local structure is consistent with the long-range
α-NMO crystal structure determined via neutron diﬀraction. The
fraction of Na+ ions in an α-like environment can be further broken
down into Na+ ions close to a Mn4+ ion (ca. 6% of all Na) and into Na+
ions surrounded by Mn3+ ions only (ca. 90% of all Na). The former
environment is indicated by a Na resonance at 950 ppm (see small peak
on the left of the alpha peak in Fig. 5(b)) which determines the
proportion of Mn4+ ions/Na vacancies to be in relatively good agree-
ment with the total Na content obtained with XPS/ICP-AES. At this
time, control over the sodium content is limited to x=0.90 for quality,
phase-pure samples.
Having established that phase pure α-NMO single crystals can be
grown via FZ, one further question explored was the degree through
which the NMO polymorphs can be selected via the crystal growth rate.
While the β-phase of NMO is nominally the higher temperature
structure [1,2,29], β-NMO is known to persist at ambient conditions
through quenching the system into a metastable state [1,7,8]. As a
result, an increased crystal pull rate can potentially be harnessed to
increase the relative phase fraction of β-NMO within NaxMnO2
crystals. To investigate this, crystals were grown under identical
conditions as the optimal α −Na
MnO
0.90
2 crystals discussed previously
with the exception of an increase in the sustained mirror translation
rate to 50 mm/h. The 23Na ssNMR spectrum collected on crystals
grown under this increased rate is plotted in Fig. 5(a) and is dominated
by the characteristic signal from Na ions in β-NMO type local
environments; speciﬁcally, the majority phase fraction of the more
rapidly grown sample is 66% β-NMO, which far exceeds the relative
fractions of 15% α-NMO and 19% of Na near locally faulted regions.
This demonstrates that the dominant growth mode has switched to the
metastable β-NMO polymorph. We note that this local phase mixture
between α-NMO, β-NMO, and faulted regions is consistent with the
composition of powders whose long-range lattice structure is β-NMO—
a lattice known to be highly defect prone [8,9] and intermixed with
regions of the competing α-phase. Due to the defect prone lattice of
β-NMO, it is currently unclear whether even higher growth rates
(>50 mm/hr) would result in more locally phase pure β-NMO crystals.
4. Conclusions
Floating zone crystal growth in an optical image furnace was
utilized to produce large volume, single crystals of α-phase NaxMnO2
with minimal stacking faults. ICP-AES, XANES, and XPS measure-
ments determined that crystals grown via the parameters reported here
possess a 10% Na deﬁciency and a ﬁnal stoichiometry of Na
MnO
0.90
2.
Further characterization of crystals grown at slower growth rates via
combined neutron diﬀraction and ssNMR studies determined both the
long-range and local structure of these crystals to be single-phase
α-NMO. By varying the crystal growth rate (i.e. the mirror translation
rate), the mixture of polymorphs present in Na
MnO
0.90
2 crystals can be
selected/tuned—a ﬁnding of potential interest for the creation of
tailored cathode materials with a tunable intermixture of α- and β-
phases. Furthermore, the large volume growth of high purity α-NMO
crystals opens the compound to detailed exploration via a new array of
probes such as single crystal neutron scattering and single crystal muon
spin relaxation.
Acknowledgements
SDW gratefully acknowledges support from a Hellman Fellowship
at UCSB, and SDW and RD acknowledge support from ARO Award
W911NF-16-1-0361. VDN is supported by the University of California
President's Postdoctoral Fellowship and the University of California,
Santa
Barbara
California
NanoSystems
Institute
Elings
Prize
Fellowship. This work was partially supported by the Assistant
Secretary for Energy Eﬃciency and Renewable Energy, Oﬃce of
Vehicle Technologies of the U.S. Department of Energy under
Contract
No.
DE-AC02-05CH11231,
under
the
Batteries
for
Advanced Transportation Technologies (BATT) Program subcontract
No. 7057154 (RJC and CPG). CPG and RJC thank the EU ERC for an
Advanced
Fellowship
for
CPG.
The
MRL
Shared
Experimental
Facilities are supported by the MRSEC Program of the NSF under
Award No. DMR 1121053; a member of the NSF-funded Materials
Research
Facilities
Network
(www.mrfn.org.
This
research
used
resources of the Advanced Photon Source, a U.S. Department of
Energy (DOE) Oﬃce of Science User Facility operated for the DOE
Oﬃce of Science by Argonne National Laboratory under Contract No.
DE-AC02-06CH11357. Sector 20 operations are supported by the US
Department
of
Energy
and
the
Canadian
Light
Source.
The
identiﬁcation of any commercial product or trade name does not
imply endorsement or recommendation by the National Institute of
Standards and Technology.
References
[1] X. Ma, H. Chen, G. Ceder, Electrochemical properties of monoclinic NaMnO2, J.
Electrochem. Soc. 158 (12) (2011) A1307–A1312. http://dx.doi.org/10.1149/
2.035112jes.
[2] A. Mendiboure, C. Delmas, P. Hagenmuller, Electrochemical intercalation and
deintercalation of NaxMnO2 bronzes, J. Solid State Chem. 57 (3) (1985) 323–331.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/0022-4596(85)90194-X.
[3] X. Li, X. Ma, D. Su, L. Liu, R. Chisnell, S.P. Ong, H. Chen, A. Toumar, J.-C. Idrobo,
Y. Lei, J. Bai, F. Wang, J.W. Lynn, Y.S. Lee, G. Ceder, Direct visualization of the
Jahn-Teller eﬀect coupled to Na ordering in Na
MnO
5/8
2, Nat. Mater. 13 (2014)
586–592. http://dx.doi.org/10.1038/nmat3964.
[4] S.-I. Hirano, R. Narita, S. Naka, Hydrothermal synthesis and properties of
NaxMnO2 crystals, J. Cryst. Growth 54 (3) (1981) 595–599. http://dx.doi.org/
10.1016/0022-0248(81)90520-0.
[5] M. Jansen, R. Hoppe, Zur Kenntnis der NaCl-Strukturfamilie Die Kristallstruktur
von NaMnO2, Zeitschrift für anorganische und allgemeine Chemie 399 (2) (1973)
163–169. http://dx.doi.org/10.1002/zaac.19733990204.
[6] R.J. Clément, P.G. Bruce, C.P. Grey, Review—manganese-based P2-type transition
metal oxides as sodium-ion battery cathode materials, J. Electrochem. Soc. 162
(14) (2015) A2589–A2604. http://dx.doi.org/10.1149/2.0201514jes.
[7] A.M. Abakumov, A.A. Tsirlin, I. Bakaimi, G.V. Tendeloo, A. Lappas, Multiple
twinning as a structure directing mechanism in layered rock-salt-type oxides:
NaMnO2 polymorphism, redox potentials, and magnetism, Chem. Mater. 26 (10)
(2014) 3306–3315. http://dx.doi.org/10.1021/cm5011696.
[8] J. Billaud, R.J. Clément, A.R. Armstrong, J. Canales-Vázquez, P. Rozier, C.P. Grey,
P.G. Bruce, β −NaMnO2: a high-performance cathode for sodium-ion batteries, J.
Am. Chem. Soc. 136 (49) (2014) 17243–17248. http://dx.doi.org/10.1021/
ja509704t (25397400).
[9] R.J. Clément, D.S. Middlemiss, I.D. Seymour, A.J. Ilott, C.P. Grey, Insights into the
Nature and Evolution upon Electrochemical Cycling of Planar Defects in the β-
NaMnO2 Na-Ion Battery Cathode: An NMR and First-Principles Density
Functional Theory Approach, Chem. Mater. 28 (22) (2016) 8228–8239. http://
dx.doi.org/10.1021/acs.chemmater.6b03074.
[10] D. Prabhakaran, A. Boothroyd, R. Coldea, N. Charnley, Crystal growth of NaxCoO2
under diﬀerent atmospheres, J. Cryst. Growth 271 (1–2) (2004) 74–80. http://
dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.jcrysgro.2004.07.033.
[11] D.P. Chen, H.C. Chen, A. Maljuk, A. Kulakov, H. Zhang, P. Lemmens, C.T. Lin,
Single-crystal growth and investigation of NaxCoO2 and
y
Na CoO · H O
x
2
2 , Phys. Rev.
B 70 (2004) 024506. http://dx.doi.org/10.1103/PhysRevB.70.024506.
[12] C. Sekar, S. Paulraj, P. Kanchana, B. Schüpp-Niewa, R. Klingeler, G. Krabbes,
B. Büchner, Eﬀect of rotation of feed and seed rods on the quality of Na
CoO
0.75
2
single crystal grown by traveling solvent ﬂoating zone method, Mater. Res. Bull. 46
(5) (2011) 675–681 http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.materresbull.2011.01.027.
[13] C. Lin, D. Chen, J. Peng, P. Zhang, Growth and characterization of high quality
single crystals of NaxCoO2, Physica C: Supercond. Appl. 460462 (Part 1) (2007)
471–472 http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.physc.2007.03.176.
[14] M. Giot, L.C. Chapon, J. Androulakis, M.A. Green, P.G. Radaelli, A. Lappas,
Magnetoelastic coupling and symmetry breaking in the frustrated antiferromagnet
α −NaMnO2, Phys. Rev. Lett. 99 (2007) 247211. http://dx.doi.org/10.1103/
PhysRevLett.99.247211.
[15] A. Zorko, S. El Shawish, D. Arčon, Z. Jagličić, A. Lappas, H. Van Tol, L.C. Brunel,
Magnetic interactions in α −NaMnO2: quantum spin-2 system on a spatially
anisotropic two-dimensional triangular lattice, Phys. Rev. B - Condens. Matter
Mater. Phys. 77 (2) (2008) 1–7. http://dx.doi.org/10.1103/PhysRevB.77.024412.
[16] A. Zorko, O. Adamopoulos, M. Komelj, D. Arčon, A. Lappas, Frustration-induced
nanometre-scale inhomogeneity in a triangular antiferromagnet, Nat. Commun. 5
(2014) 3222. http://dx.doi.org/10.1038/ncomms4222.
R. Dally et al.
Journal of Crystal Growth 459 (2017) 203–208
207


---
# Page 6

[17] C. Stock, L.C. Chapon, O. Adamopoulos, A. Lappas, M. Giot, J.W. Taylor,
M.A. Green, C.M. Brown, P.G. Radaelli, One-dimensional magnetic ﬂuctuations in
the spin-2 triangular lattice α −NaMnO2, Phys. Rev. Lett. 103 (2009) 077202.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1103/PhysRevLett.103.077202.
[18] A.T. Boothroyd, R. Coldea, D.A. Tennant, D. Prabhakaran, L.M. Helme, C.D. Frost,
Ferromagnetic in-plane spin ﬂuctuations in NaxCoO2 observed by neutron inelastic
scattering, Phys. Rev. Lett. 92 (2004) 197201. http://dx.doi.org/10.1103/
PhysRevLett.92.197201.
[19] B. Ravel, M. Newville, Athena, artemis, hephaestus: data analysis for X-ray
absorption spectroscopy using IFEFFIT, J. Synchrotron Radiat. 12 (4) (2005)
537–541. http://dx.doi.org/10.1107/S0909049505012719.
[20] S. Kraft, J. Stümpel, P. Becker, U. Kuetgens, High resolution x-ray absorption
spectroscopy with absolute energy calibration for the determination of absorption
edge energies, Rev. Sci. Instrum. 67 (3) (1996) 681–687 http://dx.doi.org/10.
1063/1.1146657.
[21] A.L. Bail, H. Duroy, J. Fourquet, Ab-initio structure determination of LiSbWO6 by
X-ray powder diﬀraction, Mater. Res. Bull. 23 (3) (1988) 447–452 http://dx.doi.
org/10.1016/0025-5408(88)90019-0.
[22] J. Rodriguez-Carvajal, FullProf: A Program for Rietveld Reﬁnement and Proﬁle
Matching Analysis of Complex Powder Diﬀraction Patterns (ILL, unpublished).
[23] J. Lynn, Y. Chen, S. Chang, Y. Zhao, S. Chi, W. Ratcliﬀ-II, B.G. Ueland, R.W. Erwin,
Double focusing thermal triple axis spectrometer at the NCNR, J. Res. Natl. Inst.
Stand. Technol. 117 (2012) 61–79. http://dx.doi.org/10.6028/jres.117.002.
[24] E. Chalmin, F. Farges, G.E. Brown, A pre-edge analysis of Mn K-edge XANES
spectra to help determine the speciation of manganese in minerals and glasses,
Contrib. Mineral. Petrol. 157 (1) (2009) 111–126. http://dx.doi.org/10.1007/
s00410-008-0323-z.
[25] M.B. Sassin, S.G. Greenbaum, P.E. Stallworth, A.N. Mansour, B.P. Hahn,
K.A. Pettigrew, D.R. Rolison, J.W. Long, Achieving electrochemical capacitor
functionality from nanoscale LiMn2O4 coatings on 3-D carbon nanoarchitectures, J.
Mater. Chem. A 1 (2013) 2431–2440. http://dx.doi.org/10.1039/C2TA00937D.
[26] O.-S. Kwon, M.-S. Kim, K.-B. Kim, A study on the eﬀect of lithium insertionex-
traction on the local structure of lithium manganese oxides using X-ray absorption
spectroscopy, J. Power Sources 8182 (1999) 510–516. http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/
S0378-7753(99)00210-4.
[27] J. Song, J. Gim, S. Kim, J. Kang, V. Mathew, D. Ahn, J. Kim, A sodium manganese
oxide cathode by facile reduction for sodium batteries, Chem.- Asian J. 9 (6) (2014)
1550–1556. http://dx.doi.org/10.1002/asia.201301510.
[28] J.-Y. Li, X.-L. Wu, X.-H. Zhang, H.-Y. Lu, G. Wang, J.-Z. Guo, F. Wan, R.-S. Wang,
Romanechite-structured Na
MnO
0.31
1.9 nanoﬁbers as high-performance cathode
material for a sodium-ion battery, Chem. Commun. 51 (2015) 14848–14851.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1039/C5CC05739F.
[29] O.I. Velikokhatnyi, C.-C. Chang, P.N. Kumta, Phase stability and electronic
structure of NaMnO2, J. Electrochem. Soc. 150 (9) (2003) A1262–A1266. http://
dx.doi.org/10.1149/1.1600464.
R. Dally et al.
Journal of Crystal Growth 459 (2017) 203–208
208


---
