# Page 1

ARTICLES
PUBLISHED ONLINE: 31 OCTOBER 2016 | DOI: 10.1038/NMAT4783
Tailoring exchange couplings in magnetic
topological-insulator/antiferromagnet
heterostructures
Qing Lin He1*†, Xufeng Kou1†, Alexander J. Grutter2†, Gen Yin1†, Lei Pan1, Xiaoyu Che1, Yuxiang Liu1,
Tianxiao Nie1, Bin Zhang3, Steven M. Disseler2, Brian J. Kirby2, William RatcliﬀII2, Qiming Shao1,
Koichi Murata1, Xiaodan Zhu1, Guoqiang Yu1, Yabin Fan1, Mohammad Montazeri1, Xiaodong Han3,
Julie A. Borchers2 and Kang L. Wang1*
Magnetic topological insulators such as Cr-doped (Bi,Sb)2Te3 provide a platform for the realization of versatile time-
reversal symmetry-breaking physics. By constructing heterostructures exhibiting Néel order in an antiferromagnetic CrSb
and ferromagnetic order in Cr-doped (Bi,Sb)2Te3, we realize emergent interfacial magnetic phenomena which can be tailored
through artiﬁcial structural engineering. Through deliberate geometrical design of heterostructures and superlattices, we
demonstrate the use of antiferromagnetic exchange coupling in manipulating the magnetic properties of magnetic topological
insulators. Proximity eﬀects are shown to induce an interfacial spin texture modulation and establish an eﬀective long-range
exchange coupling mediated by antiferromagnetism, which signiﬁcantly enhances the magnetic ordering temperature in the
superlattice. This work provides a new framework on integrating topological insulators with antiferromagnetic materials and
unveils new avenues towards dissipationless topological antiferromagnetic spintronics.
I
n magnetic topological insulators (MTIs), time-reversal symme-
try is broken and a gap is opened in the topological surface states
by the ferromagnetic order, driving the metallic surface Dirac
fermions into a massive state1–3. The presence of both topological
surface bands and time-reversal symmetry breaking imbues the
MTI with exotic physics, including the quantum anomalous Hall
eﬀect3, axion electrodynamics4, and spin–orbit torque5. Incorporat-
ing magnetic elements into TIs has been proved to be an eﬀective
approach to introduce ferromagnetism, as manifested by recent
realizations6–8 of the quantum anomalous Hall eﬀect in Cr/V-doped
(Bi,Sb)2Te3. The applicability of such an exotic eﬀect can be greatly
expanded by utilizing interfacial magnetic interactions to increase
the Curie temperatures (TC). For instance, it is proposed that when
a TI is integrated with a ferromagnet (FM), proximity eﬀects at
the interface involving the surface Dirac fermions will align spin
moments of the TI band with the itinerant carriers and give rise
to ferromagnetism2,9–12. Since proximity eﬀects occur locally at the
interface, the ordering temperatures of the FM/TI heterostructure
are primarily expected to be determined by the FM. Recent exper-
imental observations suggest that the interplay between ferromag-
netic EuS and the spin–orbit coupling in undoped TI thin film might
enhance the magnetic order in both materials, and thus magnetize
the TI surface layer near room temperature, due to the intricate
interaction between the spins in Eu atoms and the TI surface states13.
Similar proximity-induced surface state magnetization can also
occur at the interface between TIs and antiferromagnets (AFMs).
Although AFMs do not have macroscopic magnetization13,14, in
principle, short-range interfacial exchange coupling to an uncom-
pensated AFM plane can locally magnetize the surface if an
atomically sharp interface is achieved15,16. In this work we utilize
systematic doping and heterostructure engineering to demonstrate
that such surface magnetization is not only possible at AFM/MTI
interfaces, but that the magnetic properties of these systems can
be greatly enhanced through such interfacial engineering. We show
that, due to proximity eﬀects, the Cr dopants in the MTI experience
interfacial exchange coupling. This interfacial exchange coupling in
the heterostructure tailors the spin texture in both the AFM and
MTI layers, introducing an eﬀective long-range exchange coupling
between the MTI layers mediated by the AFM layers. Since this
long-range exchange is induced by the antiferromagnetic order
with a Néel temperature (TN) up to ∼700 K, the ferromagnetic
order and corresponding MTI transport signatures can survive
at much higher temperatures compared to those of isolated MTI
films (a factor of three increase of TC). As a result, the AFM/MTI
interfacial exchange coupling leads to a giant enhancement in
the magnetic ordering. This modified spin texture is studied
across wide variations in heterostructure thickness, periodicity and
Cr-doping concentration.
The AFM CrSb (lattice constants a = 4.122 Å; ref. 14), is
among the few antiferromagnetic materials lattice-matched with
Cr-doped (Bi,Sb)2Te3MTI (a = 4.262–4.383 Å), making it an ideal
candidate for the growth of epitaxial AFM/MTI heterostructures
and superlattices (SLs) by molecular beam epitaxy (see Methods).
The high crystal quality and extremely sharp interfaces of these two
materials can be seen in the high-resolution transmission electron
microscopy images shown in Fig. 1a, which is also confirmed by
X-ray structural characterization (Supplementary Figs 1, 2, and
Supplementary Information part (a)). The magnetic moments of
the MTI layers exhibit strong perpendicular anisotropy regardless of
layer thickness7,8, while in bulk AFM CrSb the Cr spins lie along the
© ƐƎƏƖɥMacmillan Publishers LimitedƦɥ/13ɥ.$ɥ/1(-%#1ɥ341#. All rights reservedƥ
1Department of Electrical Engineering, University of California, Los Angeles, California 90095, USA. 2NIST Center for Neutron Research, National Institute
of Standards and Technology, Gaithersburg, Maryland 20899-6102, USA. 3Beijing Key Lab of Microstructure and Property of Advanced Materials, Beijing
University of Technology, 100124 Beijing, China. †These authors contributed equally to this work. *e-mail: qlhe@ucla.edu; wang@ee.ucla.edu
94
NATURE MATERIALS | VOL 16 | JANUARY 2017 | www.nature.com/naturematerials


---
# Page 2

NATURE MATERIALS DOI: 10.1038/NMAT4783
ARTICLES
−4
−400 −200
0
200
400
−2
0
2
4
Interfacial
exchange coupling
Antiparallel interlayer
exchange coupling
Parallel interlayer
exchange coupling
CrSb
Magnetization (×10−4 e.m.u. cm−2)
FC
FC
+1.5 T
−1.5 T
+1.5 T
−1.5 T
FC
+1.5 T
−1.5 T
FC
+1.5 T
−1.5 T
+1.5 T
−1.5 T
Cr:(Bi, Sb)2Te3
M
(Bi, Sb)2Te3 (24 nm)
H
M
H
M
iv
iii
ii
i
H
3
3
2
a
1
CrSb
Magnetic ﬁeld
2
1
i
ii
iii
iv
Cr:(Bi, Sb)2Te3
Cr:(Bi, Sb)2Te3
Cr:(Bi, Sb)2Te3 (28 nm)
CrSb (24 nm)
Cr:(Bi, Sb)2Te3 (28 nm)
Cr:(Bi, Sb)2Te3 (28 nm)
Cr:(Bi, Sb)2Te3 (28 nm)
Cr:(Bi, Sb)2Te3 (28 nm)
CrSb (24 nm)
Cr:(Bi, Sb)2Te3 (28 nm)
CrSb (24 nm)
CrSb (24 nm)
Exchange bias
Magnetic ﬁeld (mT)
−4
−400 −200
0
200
400
−2
0
2
4
Magnetization (×10−4 e.m.u. cm−2)
Magnetic ﬁeld (mT)
−4
−400 −200
0
200
400
−2
0
2
4
Magnetization (×10−4 e.m.u. cm−2)
Magnetic ﬁeld (mT)
−4
−400 −200
0
200
400
−2
0
2
4
Magnetization (×10−4 e.m.u. cm−2)
Magnetic ﬁeld (mT)
−4
−400 −200
0
200
400
−2
0
2
4
Magnetization (×10−4 e.m.u. cm−2)
Magnetic ﬁeld (mT)
30 nm
2 nm
e
f
g
b
c
h
d
Figure 1 | Exchange couplings of Dirac fermions and AFM for diﬀerent heterostructures. a, High-resolution transmission electron microscopy images of
an AFM (CrSb)/MTI [Cr-doped (Bi,Sb)2Te3] superlattice. b, The perpendicular anisotropy of a MTI single layer is demonstrated by the square-shaped
M–H loops measured under a perpendicular magnetic ﬁeld at 5 K, while the antiferromagnetic order of the AFM single layer is evidenced by the negligible
net magnetization. c, Exchange bias observed in an AFM/MTI bilayer is demonstrated by the lateral shift (marked by dashed lines and crosses) of the M–H
loops (red and blue) under diﬀerent perpendicular ﬁeld-coolings. Cooling in a positive ﬁeld results in a negative shift (red loop, −10.8 mT) and vice versa
(blue loop, +11.0 mT). d, In an AFM/MTI/AFM trilayer, the two coupled AFM/MTI interfaces dramatically increase the coercive ﬁeld of the MTI but
eliminate the exchange bias due to the symmetry of the structure, whose eﬀects from two surfaces are cancelled out. e, The schematic orientations of the
atomic moments in the exchange-biased AFM/MTI bilayer, illustrating strong magnetic interactions between the MTI surface spins and the AFM spins.
When the external ﬁeld reverses the magnetization of the MTI, the AFM spins do not follow the ﬁeld but try to keep the FM spins in their original
orientations. Consequently the external ﬁeld needed to reverse an exchange-biased MTI is larger than for a single MTI layer. f, The relative orientations of
the atomic moments of the eﬀective long-range exchange coupling in a MTI/AFM/MTI trilayer, which is generated from a LLG quantitative simulation and
calculation using the saturation magnetization obtained from the PNR results, as described in Fig. 3. The interfacial exchange coupling between the Dirac
fermions and the AFM spins orients the magnetization directions of the two MTI layers, forming a stable ﬁeld-induced Néel-type domain wall within the
AFM. g, A novel antiparallel eﬀective long-range exchange coupling is observed in a MTI/AFM/MTI trilayer, which supports that this texture is mediated
by the interactions between the MTI surface spins and AFM spins. h, A control trilayer that replaces the AFM layer in g by an undoped TI layer with the
same thickness, which is nonmagnetic. In this system, the antiparallel eﬀective long-range exchange coupling is eliminated; this result demonstrates the
signiﬁcant role of the exchange interactions between Dirac fermions and AFM spins for stabilizing the magnetic conﬁguration.
c-axis, exhibiting A-type antiferromagnetic order with spins aligned
ferromagnetically within the basal plane and antiferromagnetically
between adjacent planes (TN around 700 K; ref. 15). To achieve a
highly insulating bulk character of the MTI layers, the Bi:Sb ratio
is optimized to be 0.26:0.62 with various Cr-doping concentrations,
positioning the Fermi level within the surface gap8.
The perpendicular anisotropy of the MTI layer (28 nm,
Cr-doping concentration x = 0.16), which is confirmed by the
nearly square M–H loop obtained under an applied perpendicular
magnetic field (Fig. 1b), is essential for opening a surface gap
and achieving the quantum anomalous Hall eﬀect. In contrast,
a negligible net magnetization is observed in the nominally
AFM single layer (24 nm) of CrSb (Fig. 1b). In the bilayer AFM
(24 nm)/MTI (28 nm) (Fig. 1c), we observed an increase in the
coercive field (HC; ref. 16) to around 67 mT for the bilayer (as
compared to around 47 mT for a MTI single layer) at 5 K. Such
an increase is probably related to the exchange coupling between
the MTI and the AFM spins at the interface, which is further
evidenced by the interface sensitivity: on the one hand, by adding
a second AFM layer (24 nm) at the bottom (that is, forming an
AFM/MTI/AFM trilayer, Fig. 1d), HC can be further enhanced
to around 90 mT, given the fact that the number of the coupled
interfaces is now doubled; on the other hand, the enhancement of
HC is found to be gradually reduced by increasing the thickness of
the MTI layer (Supplementary Fig. 3), indicating surface-dominated
ferromagnetism. Equally important, the exchange bias of the bilayer
NATURE MATERIALS | VOL 16 | JANUARY 2017 | www.nature.com/naturematerials
© ƐƎƏƖɥMacmillan Publishers LimitedƦɥ/13ɥ.$ɥ/1(-%#1ɥ341#. All rights reservedƥ
95


---
# Page 3

ARTICLES
NATURE MATERIALS DOI: 10.1038/NMAT4783
−4
−4
−2
−2 −1
0
1
2
0
2
4
−400
−200
0
200
400
−2
0
2
4
a
n = 2
n = 4
Magnetization (×10−4 e.m.u. cm−2)
n = 8
100 K
120
150
200
300
Magnetic ﬁeld (mT)
−4
−400
−200
0
200
400
−2
0
2
4
Magnetization (×10−4 e.m.u. cm−2)
Magnetic ﬁeld (mT)
−4
−400
−200
0
200
400
−2
0
2
4
Magnetization (×10−4 e.m.u. cm−2)
Magnetic ﬁeld (mT)
5 K
10
20
35
50
70
HEX
Major loop
Minor loop 1
Minor loop 2
H0
B ﬁeld (×102 mT)
b
c
Figure 2 | Novel magnetic interplays in MTI/AFM superlattices (SLs). a, Antiparallel eﬀective long-range exchange coupling in (AFM/MTI)n SLs with
n=2, 4 and 8, as demonstrated by the double-step behaviours in the M–H loops measured at 5 K. Similar to the trilayer in Fig. 1g, this behaviour is
attributed to the antiparallel magnetizations between the neighbouring MTI layers in the SLs, which originates from the interactions between the MTI
surface spins and AFM spins. The inset shows the magnetization of a control SL (TI/MTI)n=4, in which the AFM layers are replaced by an undoped TI layer
with the same thickness. In this case, the lack of exchange couplings between the Dirac fermions and AFM spins only contributes a single step switching
behaviour. b, M–H loops showing that the double-step switching behaviour persists up to ∼80 K, after which it becomes paramagnetic (n=4). c, Exchange
ﬁeld HEX between the neighbouring MTI layers in the SLs (n=4) probed by minor loop measurements, as marked by the dashed line. These extracted HEX
values are used for the studies of temperature- and n-dependent exchange couplings in Fig. 4a,b. The grey loop indicates the major loop, while the
red-orange and blue loops indicate the two minor loops. A typical minor loop 1(2) begins at +(−)1.5 T, decreases to −(+) a speciﬁc value (H0), then
sweeps back to +(−) 1.5 T; H0 is a critical ﬁeld value that is just above the onset of the second step switching.
resulting from coupling between the AFM spins and the surface
spins of the MTI layer give rise to lateral negative and positive shifts
of coercive fields under perpendicular field-cooling conditions, as
observed in Fig. 1c and schematically illustrated by the red and
blue curves in Fig. 1e, respectively16. The exchange bias persists
up to around 35 K (Supplementary Fig. 4), slightly lower than TC
(around 38 K) of a single MTI layer, indicating that the biased
magnetization originates within the MTI. In addition to the lateral
exchange-biased shift, we also observed a characteristic vertical
shift in magnetization, which may originate from uncompensated
AFM spins at the interface17. On the other hand, exchange bias is
not observed in the symmetric AFM/MTI/AFM trilayer sample
(Fig. 1d). All of these observations are consistent with the picture
of exchange bias originating from a unidirectional perpendicular
anisotropy established at the AFM/MTI interface16, which implies
the presence of strong interfacial exchange coupling.
Strikingly, when the AFM layer is instead sandwiched between
two MTI layers—that is, a MTI(28 nm)/AFM(24 nm)/MTI(28 nm)
trilayer in Fig. 1f,g—a unique M–H loop and distinct magnetic
interactions develop. In sharp contrast to the bilayer, such a
trilayer shows a negligible exchange bias in the corresponding M–H
loops with or without field-cooling treatments. Anomalous Hall
resistances obtained from transport measurements are consistent
with the M–H loops (Supplementary Fig. 5 and Supplementary
Information part (b)). Instead, a symmetrical M–H loop with
a double-switching feature arises, indicating an eﬀective long-
range exchange coupling between the MTI layers mediated by the
AFM layer. The explanation of this double switching is shown
schematically in Fig. 1f. The total energy of the spin texture is
determined by the competition between the Zeeman energy and
the exchange energy: Etot = EZ + EEX. When a large external field
is applied (point ‘1’ in the M–H loop), assuming the two MTI
layers are interfacing with diﬀerent AFM spin sublattices, a vertical
misalignment occurs in the AFM layer to minimize Etot. Here, EZ
is minimized, since both MTI layers are aligned with the external
field. On the other hand, EEX is increased in the AFM layer due
to the vertical misalignment. When the external field reduces to
zero (point ‘2’), EZ =0. Interestingly, this misalignment in the AFM
layer can survive at zero field such that the surface spins in the
MTI layers are tilted in opposite directions, as if an eﬀective long-
range AFM exchange coupling occurs between the MTI surface
spins. By further applying a negative external field (point ‘3’),
the increase in EZ switches one MTI layer before the other. After
this, the vertical misalignment vanishes, such that EEX is lowered
both in the AFM layer and at the interfaces (as shown by the
dotted circles). This lowered EEX compensates the increase in EZ
contributed from one of the MTI layers anti-aligned with the
external field. As a result, this anti-aligned configuration becomes
a metastable state. From this double-switching M–H loop, we
conclude that the MTI/AFM/MTI interfacial exchange eﬀectively
induces a long-range antiparallel exchange between the MTI layers
mediated by the AFM layer. Quantitative Landau–Lifshitz–Gilbert
(LLG) quantitative simulations and calculations, which demonstrate
the competing eﬀects of EEX and EZ as discussed above, are
provided in Supplementary Fig. 6 and Supplementary Information
part (c). As a control sample, the same measurement was carried
out in a MTI/TI/MTI trilayer (Fig. 1h), where a single square-
shaped M–H loop suggests that the eﬀective long-range exchange
between MTI layers vanishes without the AFM layer. Note that
the above discussion applies only to the case where the two MTI
layers coincide with two diﬀerent AFM sublattices. On the other
hand, when they interface the AFM with the same sublattice, the
double-switching feature vanishes (see Supplementary Information
parts (d–e)).
To quantitatively investigate the interplay between the anti-
ferromagnetic order and the MTI surface spins, we further ex-
pand our structural engineering by using building blocks of
AFM(4 nm)/MTI(7 nm) to construct n-period SLs over a range of
n= 2–10. The eﬀective long-range exchange coupling, denoted by
the symmetrical double-switching behaviours in the corresponding
M–H loops, is even more pronounced in all these SLs (Fig. 2a).
More importantly, such coupling persists to a temperature that is
much higher than TC of a single MTI layer. For example, the coercive
field, HC, of the n=4 SL (Fig. 2b) increases to 70 K and the double
switching is also enhanced to this temperature. At temperatures
above 80 K, the double switching disappears and is replaced by a
96
© ƐƎƏƖɥMacmillan Publishers LimitedƦɥ/13ɥ.$ɥ/1(-%#1ɥ341#. All rights reservedƥ
NATURE MATERIALS | VOL 16 | JANUARY 2017 | www.nature.com/naturematerials


---
# Page 4

NATURE MATERIALS DOI: 10.1038/NMAT4783
ARTICLES
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1.0
1.2
10−1
100
101
a
R++
Fit
R−−
Fit
R−−
Fit
R++
Fit
R/R (GaAs)
10−1
100
101
R/R (GaAs)
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1.0
1.2
1.4
1.6
−0.6
−0.3
0.0
0.3
0.6
Spin asymmetry
Fit
Spin asymmetry
Fit
(R++ − R−−)/(R++ + R−−)
−0.6
−0.3
0.0
0.3
0.6
(R++ − R−−)/(R++ + R−−)
QZ (nm−1)
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1.0
1.2
QZ (nm−1)
0.3
0.6
0.9
1.2
1.5
QZ (nm−1)
QZ (nm−1)
0
25
50
75
100
125
0
1
2
3
SLD
(×10−4 nm−2)
0
1
2
3
SLD
(×10−4 nm−2)
Z (nm)
(AFM/MTI)n=10 superlattice
0
5
10
15
20
25
CrSb
N
ρ
M × 3
ρ
N
ρ
M × 5
ρ
AlOX
Z (nm)
GaAs
Cr:TI
CrSb
AFM/MTI/AFM trilayer
Cr:TI
GaAs
CrSb
b
c
d
Figure 3 | Capturing the spin textures in the SL and trilayer by neutron techniques. a,b, Polarized neutron reﬂectivities (at 20 K with a 700 mT in-plane
ﬁeld) normalized to the GaAs substrates for the spin-polarized R++ and R−−channels of an (AFM/MTI)n=10 SL (a) and an AFM/MTI/AFM trilayer (b).
The insets show the corresponding models with structural and magnetic scattering length densities (SLDs), ρN and ρM, used to obtain the best ﬁts, which
contain magnetized TI and AFM layers for the SL, and a magnetized TI and two barely magnetized AFM layers for the trilayer. In the SL, the weak
magnetization within the AFM layers is probably due to spin texture modiﬁcation induced by proximity, consistent with the schematic shown in Fig. 1f. In
contrast, in the trilayer the interaction between the MTI surface spins and the AFM spins at the interface dominates and the AFM texture remains almost
intact. c,d, The detailed spin asymmetry (R++ −R−−)/(R++ +R−−) between the R++ and R−−channels for the SL (c) and the trilayer (d). In c, only
when both the MTI and AFM layers are magnetized can the spin splitting be well ﬁtted, while the magnetization is assumed to be conﬁned exclusively to
the MTI layers or the AFM layers, that is, fails to describe the signs of spin splitting. In d, the best ﬁt suggests that the AFM layer is barely magnetized
(5 e.m.u. cm−3 or less, intrinsic AFM nature) while models assuming magnetized AFM layers fail to describe the spin asymmetry. The error bars are ±1 s.d.
paramagnetic response. Similar temperature dependences are also
observed in SLs with n = 2, 6, 8, 10, confirming the giant TC
enhancement. Consistent with the MTI/AFM/MTI case discussed
above, we also note that no signatures of exchange bias are observed
in these SLs, again implying that the spin texture in the SL is diﬀerent
from that observed in the AFM/MTI bilayer. This suggests an AFM-
mediated eﬀective exchange coupling between the MTI layers in the
SL similar to the MTI/AFM/MTI trilayer case.
To address the origin of such an eﬀective long-range exchange
coupling, we utilized polarized neutron reflectometry (PNR) to
extract and compare the detailed temperature-dependent magne-
tization profiles of an (AFM/MTI)n=10 SL and the AFM/MTI/AFM
trilayer (see Methods)18,19. PNR was performed under an in-plane
applied field of 700 mT to rotate the magnetization into the plane
of the film. The fitted reflectivity of both the SL and trilayer,
along with corresponding magnetic/structural depth profiles, are
shown in Fig. 3. In the SL, we find net magnetizations of 47 and
62 e.m.u. cm−3 (1 e.m.u. cm−3 = 1 kA m−1) on the MTI and AFM
layers, respectively. Alternative models in which the net magnetiza-
tions are exclusively confined within either the MTI or AFM layers
result in significantly worse fits to the data (Supplementary Fig. 7).
It should be noted that, in modelling the SL, PNR spectra cannot
distinguish well between uniform and modulated magnetization
profiles (for example, Néel-type domain walls) within the AFM
layers, and is consistent with a number of complex spin structures,
such as an oscillatory magnetization (Supplementary Fig. 7g). On
the other hand, PNR of the trilayer shows a magnetization that
is mostly confined to the MTI layers. Models which assume a
magnetization of 62 e.m.u. cm−3 in the AFM layer fail to describe
the data, while the best fit suggests a magnetization of 5 e.m.u. cm−3
or less (Supplementary Fig. 8 and Supplementary Information part
(f)). At temperatures above TC of the MTI, no net magnetization
on either layer is observed. Thus, PNR results demonstrate that
the AFM develops a net magnetization only when sandwiched
between two MTI layers, whereby the spin texture is altered from
the bulk.
Neutron diﬀraction measurements at zero applied field were
further carried out on an (AFM/MTI)n=15 SL to provide additional
insight into the AFM spin structure (see Methods). The (0001)
and (0002) hexagonal diﬀraction peaks are sensitive to the in-plane
component of the AFM and FM structure, respectively, and were
probed between 5 K and 300 K. Given that the net magnetization
represents a small fraction of the total Cr moments even in an
applied field of 700 mT, we expect minimal magnetic intensity at
the (0002) peak location. Indeed, diﬀraction measurements show
exclusively structural scattering at this location (Supplementary
Fig. 9). Furthermore, the structural (0001) peak is forbidden in CrSb,
and any scattering observed in this location must either be purely
magnetic or originate in the MTI structure. However, no magnetic
peak is observed, suggesting that the antiferromagnetically ordered
NATURE MATERIALS | VOL 16 | JANUARY 2017 | www.nature.com/naturematerials
© ƐƎƏƖɥMacmillan Publishers LimitedƦɥ/13ɥ.$ɥ/1(-%#1ɥ341#. All rights reservedƥ
97


---
# Page 5

ARTICLES
NATURE MATERIALS DOI: 10.1038/NMAT4783
0
25
50
75
100
125
0
10
20
30
40
50
0
10
20
30
40
50
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
0
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
30
45
60
75
90
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
0
20
40
60
80
100
0
20
40
60
80
100
101
102
Temperature (K)
n = 0
n = 1
(exchange bias)
n = 2
n = 4
n = 6
n = 8
n = 1 0
a
b
n
10
80
75
70
65
50
35
20
100
5 K
c
n
d
0.19
0.16
0.13
0.09
x = 0.05
n = 4
n = 6
n = 8
n = 10
24 nm
50 nm
12 nm
18 nm
6 nm
MTI layer
n = 2
e
n = 1
HEX (mT)
HEX (mT)
TC (K)
HEX (mT)
HC (mT)
Ms (×10−5 e.m.u.)
Temperature (K)
Figure 4 | Observation of giant enhancements in exchange ﬁeld (HEX), Curie temperature (TC), and coercive ﬁeld (HC) in the superlattices.
a, Temperature-dependent HEX obtained from (AFM/MTI)n SLs. It is noticed that HEX persists at temperatures much higher than TC of the MTI single layer,
implying that the enhancement of magnetic ordering is strongly correlated with the eﬀective long-range exchange coupling. b, HEX isotherms as a function
of n. c, TC versus n. d, HEX as a function of MS, which corresponds to diﬀerent Cr-doping concentrations (x) in ﬁve (AFM/MTI)n=4 SLs, indicating the
diminishing exchange coupling between the AFMs and the MTI surface spins. The decreases of HEX along with the increasing MS demonstrate the
weakening of the eﬀective long-range exchange coupling. The increase of the Cr-doping concentration makes the internal exchange energy large, and
hence diminishes the double-switching signature, as indicated by the grey dashed line. e, HC of MTI single layers and (AFM/MTI)n SLs versus T, showing
HC increases along with the increase of n, consistent with correlation between the eﬀective long-range exchange coupling and magnetic ordering
enhancement. The error bars specify the standard deviations of the measurements from the superconducting quantum interference device system.
spins in the CrSb layers may be oriented along the c-axis. In such an
orientation, the magnetization is parallel to QZ and the neutrons are
not sensitive to this magnetic moment. Alternatively, it is possible
that the antiferromagnetic order does not maintain phase coherence
between AFM regions, resulting in magnetic peaks which are too
broad to resolve. Combining the PNR and diﬀraction results, we
conclude that the CrSb layers are magnetically ordered and that the
spin structure is dramatically modulated from the bulk due to the
eﬀective long-range exchange coupling when sandwiched between
two MTI layers (like the (AFM/MTI)n SLs and MTI/AFM/MTI
cases). Consequently, the exchange bias is eliminated. In contrast,
for an AFM layer in contact with a single MTI layer (like the
AFM/MTI bilayer case), the AFM spin texture remains mostly
intact, and the exchange bias is preserved.
We find that magnetic ordering temperature is enhanced in the
SLs, such that the transport signature of the magnetized Dirac
fermions can survive at much higher temperatures compared to
those observed in the isolated MTI thin films, as summarized in
Fig. 4. In general, at the FM/AFM interfaces, the layer with a
higher magnetic ordering temperature should enhance the ordering
temperature of the interfacing material20. However, experimental
demonstrations of an increase in TC in the case of TN ≫TC have
been challenging, since a field-cooling process could not pin the
antiferromagnetic order to avoid multi-domain eﬀects16,21,22. In
98
© ƐƎƏƖɥMacmillan Publishers LimitedƦɥ/13ɥ.$ɥ/1(-%#1ɥ341#. All rights reservedƥ
NATURE MATERIALS | VOL 16 | JANUARY 2017 | www.nature.com/naturematerials


---
# Page 6

NATURE MATERIALS DOI: 10.1038/NMAT4783
ARTICLES
our samples, the material quality of CrSb is carefully controlled
such that multi-domain eﬀects are minimized. At an atomically
flat AFM/MTI interface, although the magnetization of the Dirac
fermion surface states is dominated by the local spins of Cr dopants,
the AFM/FM interfacial exchange pins the ferromagnetic order in
the MTI layer, and thus supports the exchange gap of the massive
Dirac fermions against temperature fluctuations. The presence of
massive Dirac fermions induces an anomalous Hall eﬀect, from
which one can extract TC through Arrott plots of the Hall resistances
(Supplementary Fig. 10). The onset of the ferromagnetic order in
the AFM/MTI bilayer is found to appear at a significantly higher
temperature (∼54 K) than the single MTI layer (∼38 K) with the
same Cr-doping concentration (x = 0.16). In the case of SL, TC
as a function of n is shown in Fig. 4c and the corresponding
Hall resistance results are shown in Supplementary Fig. 10. It
can be clearly seen that the anomalous Hall signal persists at
up to ∼90 K with the help of the AFM layers. Additionally, we
observe ∼90% spontaneous magnetization in the (AFM/MTI)n=4
SL (Supplementary Fig. 11 and Supplementary Information part
(g)), further demonstrating the nearly single domain nature6 of the
SL, which is in sharp contrast to the single MTI layer.
The eﬀective long-range exchange coupling can be quantified
by the exchange field, HEX, extracted from the double-switching
feature of the SLs. The values of HEX are obtained from minor
loop measurements23–25 as shown in Fig. 2c and Supplementary
Figs 12–16. The temperature-dependent HEX of n-period SLs
are summarized in Fig. 4. As shown in Fig. 4a, HEX increases
dramatically up to ∼50 mT at T =5 K. As temperature increases,
HEX eventually vanishes at∼90 K for n=10. This result is consistent
with the TC values extracted from the transport measurements
(Fig. 4c). The corresponding HEX isotherms are shown in Fig. 4b
for clarity. It should be highlighted that the coupling along the
c-axis crosses many van der Waals gaps within MTI quintuple layers,
showing a signature of long-range ferromagnetism26–28. In addition
to HEX, the enhancement in the magnetic order is also demonstrated
by the increase in HC. In Fig. 4e, HC as a function of temperature
is compared between SLs and isolated MTI thin films. For SLs, the
maximum increase in HC is roughly two orders of magnitude as
compared to those of single layers of MTIs. In this measurement,
single layers of MTIs do not show a distinct thickness-dependent
HC, implying a carrier-independent Van Vleck magnetism29.
To further confirm that the long-range magnetic order is medi-
ated by the AFM spin texture, Cr-doping concentration was varied
in order to adjust the exchange coupling energy inside the MTI
layers. In order to preserve the MTI surface spin tilting induced by
the AFM layers, the internal exchange coupling within the MTI layer
should be smaller than or comparable to the interfacial exchange.
The increased concentration of Cr dopants reduces the average
distance between the spins in the MTI layer, and thus increases the
internal exchange energy. When the latter dominates, the surface
spins in the MTI layers cannot be pinned by the spins in the
AFM layer, such that the double-switching signature should vanish.
Experimentally HEX in the SLs decreases with increasing saturation
magnetization Ms (corresponding to increasing Cr concentrations
x = 0.05, 0.09, 0.13, 0.16 and 0.19) respectively, consistent with
the expectation as discussed above. Although further increasing Cr
concentration can further enhance the magnetic order in the MTI
layer, the TI surface state becomes more massive and eventually loses
its topological order30. This should be avoided in the study of TI
surface states and their interplay with magnetic orders.
We have demonstrated intimate connections between het-
erostructure geometry and magnetic spin textures of the MTIs and
AFMs. The AFM is shown to be an eﬃcient interfacial exchange
coupling mediator between the spins inside diﬀerent MTI layers,
which additionally allows a giant enhancement in magnetic ordering
and a modification of the composite magnetic order. In particular,
our results revealed several advantages of AFM-based proximity-
eﬀect engineering over conventional FM-based systems, including
longer-range interactions. This work unveils enormous opportuni-
ties for integrating and modifying topological surface states through
coupling to AFM antiferromagnetic order, opening new avenues
towards structural engineering of MTIs and showcasing the benefits
of integrating MTIs with AFMs.
Methods
Methods and any associated references are available in the online
version of the paper.
Received 12 May 2016; accepted 23 September 2016;
published online 31 October 2016
References
1.
Chen, Y. L. et al. Massive Dirac fermion on the surface of a magnetically doped
topological insulator. Science 329, 659–662 (2010).
2.
Qi, X.-L., Hughes, T. L. & Zhang, S.-C. Topological field theory of time-reversal
invariant insulators. Phys. Rev. B 78, 195424 (2008).
3.
Yu, R. et al. Quantized anomalous Hall eﬀect in magnetic topological
insulators. Science 329, 61–64 (2010).
4.
Li, R., Wang, J., Qi, X.-L. & Zhang, S.-C. Dynamical axion field in topological
magnetic insulators. Nat. Phys. 6, 284–288 (2010).
5.
Mahfouzi, F., Nagaosa, N. & Nikolic, B. K. Spin–orbit coupling induced
spin-transfer torque and current polarization in
topological-insulator/ferromagnet vertical heterostructures. Phys. Rev. Lett.
109, 166602 (2012).
6.
Chang, C. Z. et al. High-precision realization of robust quantum anomalous
Hall state in a hard ferromagnetic topological insulator. Nat. Mater. 14,
473–477 (2015).
7.
Chang, C. Z. et al. Experimental observation of the quantum anomalous Hall
eﬀect in a magnetic topological insulator. Science 340, 167–170 (2013).
8.
Kou, X. et al. Metal-to-insulator switching in quantum anomalous Hall states.
Nat. Commun. 6, 8474 (2015).
9.
Jiang, Z. et al. Independent tuning of electronic properties and induced
ferromagnetism in topological insulators with heterostructure approach.
Nano Lett. 15, 5835–5840 (2015).
10. Lang, M. et al. Proximity induced high-temperature magnetic order in
topological insulator–ferrimagnetic insulator heterostructure. Nano Lett. 14,
3459–3465 (2014).
11. Wei, P. et al. Exchange-coupling-induced symmetry breaking in topological
insulators. Phys. Rev. Lett. 110, 186807 (2013).
12. Yang, W. et al. Proximity eﬀect between a topological insulator and a
magnetic insulator with large perpendicular anisotropy. Appl. Phys. Lett. 105,
092411 (2014).
13. Katmis, F. et al. A high-temperature ferromagnetic topological insulating phase
by proximity coupling. Nature 533, 513–516 (2016).
14. Takei, W. J., Cox, D. E. & Shirane, G. Magnetic structures in the MnSb–CrSb
system. Phys. Rev. 129, 2008–2018 (1963).
15. Snow, A. I. Magnetic moment orientation and thermal expansion of
antiferromagnetic CrSb. Rev. Mod. Phys. 25, 127 (1953).
16. Nogués, J. & Schuller, I. K. Exchange bias. J. Magn. Magn. Mater. 192,
203–232 (1999).
17. Shiratsuchi, Y. et al. Detection and in situ switching of unreversed interfacial
antiferromagnetic spins in a perpendicular-exchange-biased system. Phys. Rev.
Lett. 109, 077202 (2012).
18. Kirby, B. J. et al. Phase-sensitive specular neutron reflectometry for imaging the
nanometer scale composition depth profile of thin-film materials. Curr. Opin.
Colloid Interface 17, 44–53 (2012).
19. Borchers, J. A. et al. Long-range magnetic order in Fe3O4/NiO superlattices.
Phys. Rev. B 51, 8276–8286 (1995).
20. Lenz, K., Zander, S. & Kuch, W. Magnetic proximity eﬀects in
antiferromagnet/ferromagnet bilayers: the impact on the Neél temperature.
Phys. Rev. Lett. 98, 237201 (2007).
21. Manna, P. K. & Yusuf, S. M. Two interface eﬀects: exchange bias and magnetic
proximity. Phys. Rep. 535, 61–99 (2014).
22. Wu, X. W. & Chien, C. L. Exchange coupling in ferromagnet/antiferromagnet
bilayers with comparable TC and TN. Phys. Rev. Lett. 81, 2795–2798 (1998).
23. Mauri, D., Siegmann, H. C., Bagus, P. S. & Kay, E. Simple model for thin
ferromagnetic films exchange coupled to an antiferromagnetic substrate.
J. Appl. Phys. 62, 3047–3049 (1987).
24. Liu, Z. Y. & Adenwalla, S. Oscillatory interlayer exchange coupling and its
temperature dependence in [Pt/Co]3/NiO/[Co/Pt]3 multilayers with
perpendicular anisotropy. Phys. Rev. Lett. 91, 037207 (2003).
NATURE MATERIALS | VOL 16 | JANUARY 2017 | www.nature.com/naturematerials
© ƐƎƏƖɥMacmillan Publishers LimitedƦɥ/13ɥ.$ɥ/1(-%#1ɥ341#. All rights reservedƥ
99


---
# Page 7

ARTICLES
NATURE MATERIALS DOI: 10.1038/NMAT4783
25. Wilson, M. J. et al. Interlayer and interfacial exchange coupling in
ferromagnetic metal/semiconductor heterostructures. Phys. Rev. B 81,
045319 (2010).
26. Abanin, D. A. & Pesin, D. A. Ordering of magnetic impurities and
tunable electronic properties of topological insulators. Phys. Rev. Lett. 106,
136802 (2011).
27. Zhu, J. J., Yao, D. X., Zhang, S. C. & Chang, K. Electrically controllable surface
magnetism on the surface of topological insulators. Phys. Rev. Lett. 106,
097201 (2011).
28. Liu, Q., Liu, C. X., Xu, C., Qi, X. L. & Zhang, S. C. Magnetic impurities on the
surface of a topological insulator. Phys. Rev. Lett. 102, 156603 (2009).
29. Li, M. et al. Experimental verification of the van Vleck nature of long-range
ferromagnetic order in the vanadium-doped three-dimensional topological
insulator Sb2Te3. Phys. Rev. Lett. 114, 146802 (2015).
30. Jiang, Y. et al. Mass acquisition of Dirac fermions in magnetically doped
topological insulator Sb2Te3 films. Phys. Rev. B 92, 195418 (2015).
Acknowledgements
We thank S. Watson, R. Erwin and W. Chen for their assistance in the neutron diﬀraction
experiment. We are also grateful for the support from the Army Research Oﬃce
accomplished under Grant Number W911NF-15-1-10561. We also acknowledge the
support by the Spins and Heat in Nanoscale Electronic Systems (SHINES), an Energy
Frontier Research Center funded by the US Department of Energy (DOE), Oﬃce of
Science, Basic Energy Sciences (BES) under award #SC0012670, and the National Science
Foundation (DMR-1411085). This work was supported in part by the FAME Center, one
of six centres of STARnet, a Semiconductor Research Corporation program sponsored by
MARCO and DARPA. Certain commercial equipment, instruments, or materials are
identified in this paper to foster understanding. Such identification does not imply
recommendation or endorsement by the National Institute of Standards and Technology,
nor does it imply that the materials or equipment identified are necessarily the best
available for the purpose.
Author contributions
Q.L.H., X.K. and K.L.W. conceived and designed the experiments. Q.L.H., L.P., X.C. and
K.M. performed the sample growth and device fabrication. B.Z. and X.H. carried out the
TEM experiments. All the authors contributed to the measurements and analyses. A.J.G.,
S.M.D., B.J.K., W.R.II and J.A.B. performed the neutron experiments and analyses.
Q.L.H., X.K., A.J.G., G.Yin and K.L.W. wrote the manuscript with contributions from all
the authors.
Additional information
Supplementary information is available in the online version of the paper. Reprints and
permissions information is available online at www.nature.com/reprints.
Correspondence and requests for materials should be addressed to Q.L.H. or K.L.W.
Competing ﬁnancial interests
The authors declare no competing financial interests.
100
© ƐƎƏƖɥMacmillan Publishers LimitedƦɥ/13ɥ.$ɥ/1(-%#1ɥ341#. All rights reservedƥ
NATURE MATERIALS | VOL 16 | JANUARY 2017 | www.nature.com/naturematerials


---
# Page 8

NATURE MATERIALS DOI: 10.1038/NMAT4783
ARTICLES
Methods
MBE growth of hybrid magnetic structures. All heterostructures discussed in this
work were fabricated in an ultrahigh vacuum molecular beam epitaxy (MBE)
system. All samples were fabricated on epi-ready semi-insulating GaAs(111)B
substrates. Prior to sample growth, oxide-desorption processes were carried out at
580 ◦C for 30 min. The substrate temperature was reduced and maintained at
200 ◦C for the remainder of the fabrication process. High-purity Bi and Cr were
evaporated from standard Knudsen cells, whereas Sb, Se and Te were evaporated by
standard thermal cracker cells. Real-time reflection high-energy electron
diﬀraction (RHEED) was used to monitor all the growth cycles. For the growth of
both Cr-doped (Bi,Sb)2Te3 and CrSb layers, RHEED patterns were optimized to
very sharp, smooth, streaky patterns, while the intensity oscillations were used to
calibrate growth rates. These growth rates were determined to be around 0.08 and
0.06 Å s−1 for Cr-doped (Bi,Sb)2Te3 and CrSb, respectively. Direct epitaxial growth
of CrSb on the GaAs substrate results in a three-dimensional growth mode with
low crystal quality. Thus, growth of a CrSb single layer is carried out on an
undoped 2-nm-thick (Bi,Sb)2Te3 buﬀer layer on the GaAs substrate, dramatically
improving the CrSb crystal quality. After film growth, 2 nm Al layers were
evaporated on all the sample surfaces in situ at room temperature to prevent against
contamination and oxidation.
Polarized neutron reflectometry. Polarized neutron reflectometry (PNR)
measurements were carried out with the PBR beamline at the NIST Center for
Neutron Research. Samples were field-cooled in an in-plane applied field of 700 mT
to a temperature of 20 K. Measurements were performed in the specular reflection
geometry, with the direction of wavevector transfer perpendicular to the
superlattice surface. The neutron propagation direction was perpendicular to both
the sample surface and the applied field direction. Based on magnetometry
measurements showing in-plane magnetization saturation below the applied field
of 700 mT, spin-flip scattering is not expected. Therefore, we measured the spin-up
and spin-down reflectivities using full polarization analysis to ensure that the
incident and scattered beams retained identical neutron polarization directions. We
refer, therefore, only to the spin-up and spin-down non-spin-flip reflectivities,
which are a function of the nuclear and magnetic scattering length density profiles.
The magnetic profile was deduced through modelling of the data with the NIST
Refl1d software package.
Neutron diﬀraction. Neutron diﬀraction measurements were performed on the
BT-4 triple axis spectrometer and polarized beam measurements were performed
on the BT-7 triple axis spectrometer with 3He spin filters at the NIST Center for
Neutron Research. Measurements were carried out in a temperature range of
5–300 K in a closed-cycle refrigerator. The incident and scattering neutron energy
was 14.7 meV (λ=2.359 Å), selected by pyrolitic graphite (PG) monochromator
and analyzer crystals with multiple PG filters before and after the sample to
eliminate higher-order neutrons. The Soller collimator configuration in
downstream order was open-monochromator-40′-sample-40′-analyzer-open-
detector. For polarized beam measurements, two diﬀerent spin quantization axes
were measured independently; the first with vertical spins out of the scattering
plane (and therefore perpendicular to (0002)), and the second with spins polarized
horizontally along the momentum transfer Q.
Magneto measurement. Hall bar devices with dimensions of 2 mm × 1 mm were
fabricated for the transport measurements. Systematically altering experimental
variables such as temperature, magnetic field, working frequency, and rotation
angle, in addition to multiple lock-in amplifiers, and sourcemeters enable
comprehensive and high-sensitivity transport measurements in all the devices31.
References
31. Nguyen, V. D. et al. Detection of domain-wall position and magnetization
reversal in nanostructures using the magnon contribution to the resistivity.
Phys. Rev. Lett. 107, 136605 (2011).
NATURE MATERIALS | www.nature.com/naturematerials
© ƐƎƏƖɥMacmillan Publishers LimitedƦɥ/13ɥ.$ɥ/1(-%#1ɥ341#. All rights reservedƥ


---
