# Page 1

J Supercond Nov Magn (2016) 29:643–644
DOI 10.1007/s10948-015-3293-1
ORIGINAL PAPER
Absence of Magnetic Field Dependence of the Anomalous
Bond-Stretching Phonon in YBa2Cu3O6.6
D. Reznik1 · D. Parshall2 · S. R. Park3 · J. W. Lynn2 ·
Th. Wolf4
Received: 10 October 2015 / Accepted: 19 November 2015 / Published online: 26 December 2015
© Springer Science+Business Media New York 2015
Abstract Superlattice diffraction peaks have been recently
observed in underdoped YBa2Cu3O6.6. They have been
interpreted to originate from a charge density wave (CDW)
formation. It is believed that strong phonon anomalies pre-
viously observed near the same wavevectors are related to
the CDW. Competition with superconductivity is a salient
feature of the CDW peaks. We investigated if the same is
true of anomalous bond-stretching phonons around 60 meV
by measuring the spectrum of this phonon at 10 K with and
without an applied magnetic field of 10 T. Applying the
field had no effect on the phonon within the experimental
uncertainty.
Keywords Cuprates · Phonons · Superconductivity ·
CDW · Pseudogap
X-ray diffraction superlattice peaks were recently observed
in underdoped YBa2Cu3O6.6 [1–4] at q = (0, 0.3, 0). They
have been interpreted to originate from a charge density
 D. Reznik
Dmitry.Reznik@Colorado.edu
1
Department of Physics, University of Colorado-Boulder,
Boulder, CO 80309 USA
2
NIST Center for Neutron Research, National Institute
of Standards and Technology, Gaithersburg, MD 20899, USA
3
Department of Physics, Incheon National University, Incheon
406-772, Korea
4
Institute of Solid State Physics, Karlsruhe Institute
of Technology, 76021 Karlsruhe, Germany
wave (CDW) formation [4]. A similar charge ordered state
in copper oxide superconductors, originating from stripes,
also appears in La1.875Ba0.125CuO4 (LBCO) [5, 6]. There is
a general agreement that previously reported strong phonon
anomalies in cuprates have a similar origin to the CDW
peaks, because they appear at the same wavevectors. The
temperature and magnetic field dependence of the CDW
peak intensities showed that CDW competes with super-
conductivity [2]. In optimally doped yttrium barium copper
oxide (YBCO), bond-stretching and bond-buckling anoma-
lies become enhanced below Tc [7, 8] so it is possible that
the application of magnetic field in the superconducting
state may have an effect on the phonons.
We performed inelastic neutron scattering measurements
to determine how the 10-T magnetic field influences the
previously reported anomalous bond-stretching phonon at
low temperatures. The field had no influence on the phonon
within experimental uncertainty.
The experiment was performed on the BT-7 triple-axis
spectrometer at NCNR/NIST using double-focusing Cu220
monochromator and horizontally focusing PG002 analyzer
with the fixed final energy of 14.7 meV [9]. Extra shielding
was installed to reduce fast neutrons. To reduce background
and contaminations, a 10-cm-thick PG filter was used. The
sample was a high-quality single crystal of YBCO6.6 used
in previous studies [10]. It was mounted in a closed-cycle
refrigerator magnet with the maximum field of 10 T. The
experiment consisted of two constant wavevector, Q, scans
performed at the same wavevector Q = (3.25, 0, 0) between
45 and 65 meV. Note that due to the twinning of the sam-
ple, this wavevector also probes Q = (0, 3.25, 0); the
spectrum contains the superposition of phonons whose dis-
placements are polarized along and perpendicular to the


---
# Page 2

644
J Supercond Nov Magn (2016) 29:643–644
45
50
55
60
65
260
280
300
320
340
360
380
400
420
0T
10T
neutron counts/15min.
Energy (meV)
10K
Fig. 1 Neutron scattering spectra of YBa2Cu3O6.6 at 0 and 10 T at
Q = (3.25, 0, 0)
Cu–O chains. (See ref. [10] for details). When YBCO
becomes superconducting, it tends to align its c-axis with
the field, so a field effect can appear in the neutron spec-
tra due to the movement of the sample. We took special
care to avoid this. First, the sample was carefully aligned
with the c-axis vertical to prevent being rotated by the field.
Then, it was field-cooled to 3 K and the first scan at 10 T
was performed. After that, it was warmed above the super-
conducting transition temperature of 66 K, and the field
was turned off. Then the sample was cooled again to base
temperature and the scan was repeated with no field. We
carefully monitored structural Bragg peaks throughout the
experiment and determined that the sample did not move
under the influence of the field. Figure 1 shows the results
of the experiment. Two phonons at 50 and 57 meV appear
at the same energies as in ref. [10]. The main difference
between these and earlier data on the same sample is that the
signal-to-background ratio is lower in our experiment due to
additional background from the magnet. This was compen-
sated by longer counting times, which improved statistics
sufficiently to determine if the applied field has an effect
or not. A previous study of the same sample assigned the
phonon at 50 meV to a bond-bending mode and the phonon
at 57 meV to a bond-stretching phonon with atomic dis-
placements along the Cu–O chains [10]. Since the sample is
twinned, bond-stretching phonons polarized along and per-
pendicular to the chains should be observable, but the latter
was previously reported at 70 meV [10], which is outside
of our measurement window. We collected the best statistics
around 57 meV, because this is the mode that was previously
reported to be anomalous [10].
It is clear from Fig. 1 that the magnetic field does not
have a measurable effect on the phonons. This result con-
trasts with the strong effect of the field on the CDW Bragg
peaks, which are enhanced as the applied field suppresses
superconductivity [2]. There can be a number of reasons for
this difference. One is that the phonon anomalies are not
related to the CDW peak. That seems unlikely, since the two
appear near the same wavevector. Another is that the charge
order competes with superconductivity only at low energies,
and the phonon at high energy is not affected. We did not
have enough beamtime to measure the temperature depen-
dence of the bond-stretching mode across Tc with no field at
this composition. A previous study of the buckling phonon
anomaly in a similar sample showed no effect of Tc [11] so it
is possible that the phonon anomaly is enhanced by the onset
of superconductivity only near optimum doping. In this case
it is possible that the phonon anomalies at high energies
are associated not with the opening of the superconduct-
ing gap but of the pseudogap, which is not sensitive to
magnetic field. More work is necessary to understand this issue.
To conclude, we showed that the anomalous phonon at
57.5 meV does not change upon application of a 10-T mag-
netic field, in contrast with the CDW peak at the same
energy that competes with superconductivity.
Acknowledgments
D. R. was supported by the DOE, Office of
Basic Energy Sciences, Office of Science, under Contract No. DE-
SC0006939.
References
1. Ghiringhelli, G., et al.: Science 337, 821 (2012)
2. Chang, J., et al.: Nat. Phys. 8, 871 (2012)
3. Achkar, J., et al.: Phys. Rev. Lett. 109, 167001 (2012)
4. Blackburn, E., et al.: Phys. Rev. Lett. 110, 137004 (2013)
5. Tranquada, J.M., et al.: Nature 375, 561 (1995)
6. Abbamonte, P., et al.: Nat. Phys. 1, 155 (2005)
7. Reznik, D., et al.: Phys. Rev. B 78, 094507 (2008)
8. Raichle, M., et al.: Phys. Rev. Lett. 107, 177004 (2011)
9. Lynn, J.W., et al.: J. Res. NIST 117, 61–79 (2012)
10. Pintschovius, L., et al.: Phys. Rev. Lett. 89, 037001 (2002)
11. Raichle, M., et al.: Unpublished


---
