# Page 1

ARTICLE
OPEN
Spin excitations and the Fermi surface of superconducting FeS
Haoran Man1, Jiangang Guo1, Rui Zhang1, Rico Schönemann2, Zhiping Yin3, Mingxuan Fu4, Matthew B. Stone
5, Qingzhen Huang6,
Yu Song1, Weiyi Wang1, David J. Singh7, Felix Lochner8,9, Tilmann Hickel9, Ilya Eremin8, Leland Harriger6, Jeffrey W. Lynn6,
Collin Broholm4,6, Luis Balicas2, Qimiao Si1 and Pengcheng Dai1,3
High-temperature superconductivity occurs near antiferromagnetic instabilities and the nematic state. Debate remains on the
origin of nematic order in FeSe and its relation with superconductivity. Here, we use transport, neutron scattering and Fermi surface
measurements to demonstrate that hydrothermo grown superconducting FeS, an isostructure of FeSe, is a tetragonal paramagnet
without nematic order and with a quasiparticle mass signiﬁcantly reduced from that of FeSe. Only stripe-type spin excitations are
observed up to 100 meV. No direct coupling between spin excitations and superconductivity in FeS is found, suggesting that FeS is
less correlated and the nematic order in FeSe is due to competing checkerboard and stripe spin ﬂuctuations.
npj Quantum Materials  (2017) 2:14 ; doi:10.1038/s41535-017-0019-6
INTRODUCTION
High-transition temperature superconductivity in copper oxides
and iron-based materials occurs near checkerboard and stripe
antiferromagnetic (AF) instabilities, respectively.1–3 Although there
is also ample evidence for the existence of a nematic order, where
a translationally invariant metallic phase spontaneously breaks
rotational symmetry,4–8 and for a nematic quantum critical point
near optimal superconductivity in iron-based superconductors,9, 10
much remains unclear concerning its microscopic origin and
its relationship to superconductivity.2,
3 In particular, recent
debates focus on whether nematic order in superconducting
FeSe below the tetragonal-to-orthorhombic transition tempera-
ture Ts = 91 K without static AF order11–13 is due to competing
magnetic instabilities or orbital ordering.14–22 Here, we use
transport, neutron scattering and Fermi surface measurements
to demonstrate that superconducting FeS, an isostructure of
FeSe,23, 24 is a tetragonal paramagnet without nematic order and
with a quasiparticle mass signiﬁcantly reduced from that of FeSe.
Our neutron scattering experiments in the energy regime below
100 meV reveal only stripe-type spin ﬂuctuations in FeS that are
not directly coupled to superconductivity. These properties
suggest that FeS is a weakly correlated analog of FeSe and,
moreover, that the nematic order in FeSe is due to the frustrated
magnetic interactions underlying the competing checkerboard
and stripe spin ﬂuctuations.16–18
A key to understanding the physics of the iron-based super-
conductors is to determine the role played by magnetism and by
electronic nematicity to superconductivity.1–3, 5–7 In a typical AF
ordered iron-pnictide, a tetragonal-to-orthorhombic lattice distor-
tion Ts occurs at temperatures above or at the AF ordering
temperature TN,2 and the nematic phase is observed in the
paramagnetic
orthorhombic
phase
between
Ts
and
TN.5–7
Although iron chalcogenide FeSe single crystals [Fig. 1a, b] also
undergo a nematic transition at Ts and become superconducting
at Tc = 9.3 K,11 the low-temperature static AF ordered phase is
absent.12, 13 This has fueled debates concerning the role of AF
order and spin ﬂuctuations to the nematic phase and super-
conductivity.12–22 Initially, nuclear magnetic resonance experi-
ments on FeSe suggested that magnetism plays no role in its
nematic transition.12, 13 However, subsequent neutron scattering
measurements reveal strong low-energy spin ﬂuctuations at the
stripe AF ordering wave vector and a resonance coupled to
superconductivity,14, 15 similar to spin ﬂuctuations in the iron
pnictides.2 In addition, recent spin excitation measurements
suggest that the nematic transition in FeSe is due to a competition
between the checkerboard and the stripe spin ﬂuctuations at AF
wave vectors (1, 1) and (1, 0), respectively [Fig. 1c, d],16 consistent
with the frustrating magnetic interactions.17, 18 In this picture, one
would expect that S-substituted FeSe1−xSx, which reduces Ts and
lattice orthorhombicity,25, 26 should have reduced spin ﬂuctua-
tions associated with the checkerboard order. As FeS single
crystals are isostructural to FeSe but with a reduced Tc = 4.3 K, it
should allow a direct comparison with FeSe,14–16 and thus
elucidate the role of spin ﬂuctuations to the nematic phase and
to superconductivity.
RESULTS
Here, we use transport (Fig. 1), neutron scattering (Figs. 2 and 3),
quantum oscillation experiments (Fig. 4), as well as density
function theory (DFT)27 and DFT combined with dynamical mean
ﬁeld theory (DMFT) calculations28, 29 to study single crystals of FeS
(see supplementary information for additional data and analysis).
To search for the presence of a nematic phase in FeS, we
performed elastoresistance measurements on single crystals of
Received: 7 November 2016 Revised: 7 February 2017 Accepted: 17 February 2017
1Department of Physics and Astronomy and Center for Quantum Materials, Rice University, Houston, TX 77005, USA; 2Department of Physics and National High Magnetic Field
Laboratory, Florida State University, Tallahassee, FL 32310, USA; 3Center for Advanced Quantum Studies and Department of Physics, Beijing Normal University, Beijing 100875,
China; 4Institute for Quantum Matter and Department of Physics and Astronomy, The Johns Hopkins University, Baltimore, MD 21218, USA; 5Quantum Condensed Matter
Division, Oak Ridge National Laboratory, Oak Ridge, TN 37831, USA; 6NIST Center for Neutron Research, National Institute of Standards and Technology, Gaithersburg, MD 20899,
USA; 7Department of Physics and Astronomy, University of Missouri, Columbia, MO 65211-7010, USA; 8Institut für Theoretische Physik III, Ruhr-Universität Bochum, Bochum D-
44801, Germany and 9Max-Planck Institut für Eisenforschung, Düsseldorf, Germany
Correspondence: Zhiping Yin (yinzhiping@bnu.edu.cn) or Luis Balicas (balicas@magnet.fsu.edu) or Pengcheng Dai (pdai@rice.edu)
www.nature.com/npjquantmats
Published in partnership with Nanjing University


---
# Page 2

Spin excitations and Fermi surface of superconducting FeS
H Man et al
2
npj Quantum Materials (2017)  14 
Published in partnership with Nanjing University


---
# Page 3

FeS and BaFe1.97Ni0.03As2
30 using a piezo electric device (Fig. 1g)
(see ref. 10).
Figure 1h compares the strain dependence of the elastoresis-
tance at different temperatures for FeS, FeSe, and BaFe1.97-
Ni0.03As2, respectively. While there is a clear resistivity anisotropy
for FeSe and BaFe1.97Ni0.03As2, indicative of a nematic phase, FeS
reveals no anisotropy in measurements of the elastoresistance
from 5 to 105 K. We therefore conclude that FeS has no nematic
order, which is consistent with the previous reports on FeS23, 24
and with the notion that the nematic phase vanishes for FeSe1−xSx
for x ≥0.17.31–33 The results from the transport measurements are
complemented by those from elastic neutron scattering measure-
ments, which reveal that the system is paramagnetic at all
temperatures, (see supplementary information for additional data
and analysis) suggesting
that the
previous
observation
of
magnetic order in FeS is likely due to impurity phases.34, 35
Having established the absence of any nematic order in FeS, we
turn to probing the spin excitation spectrum by inelastic neutron
scattering experiments. Figure 2 summarizes our neutron time-of-
ﬂight measurements on FeS to determine the overall wave vector
and energy dependence of the spin ﬂuctuations.30 For these
measurements, we use the orthorhombic unit cell notation, and
deﬁne momentum transfer Q in the three-dimensional (3D)
reciprocal space in Å−1 as Q = Ha* + Kb* + Lc*, where H, K, and L
are Miller indices and a ¼ ^a2π=a, b ¼ ^b2π=b, c ¼ ^c2π=c [Fig. 1c,
d]. Our single crystals are aligned with the c-axis along the
incident beam and with the a-axis in the horizontal plane. In this
geometry, we expect that the checkerboard and stripe AF
correlations occur at (±1, ±1) and (±1, 0) in-plane wave vectors,
respectively. Figure 2a–d shows the spin excitations of FeS at
energy transfers of E = 20 ± 4, 40 ± 5, 50 ± 7, and 59 ± 7 meV,
respectively. In all cases, we see transversely elongated spin
excitations centered around the stripe wave vector (1, 0) with no
obvious magnetic signal at the checkerboard wave vector (1, 1).
Since magnetic scattering is normalized to absolute units using a
vanadium standard,2 we can quantitatively compare the results
with those of FeSe.15, 16 Figure 2e–h shows the transverse cuts for
FeS (solid circles) and FeSe (solid lines) corresponding to energies in
Fig. 2a–d along the [1, k] direction [see red dashed lines in Fig. 2a
for scan direction]. Integrating the scattering over the same
energy interval, we see that the FeS scattering is much weaker,
and we do not observe magnetic scattering associated with the
checkerboard correlations for energies below 100 meV, in contrast
with the clear magnetic scattering of FeSe at (1, 1) as marked by
the vertical arrows in Fig. 2e–h. Figure 2i compares the energy
dependence of the local dynamic susceptibility χ′′(E), deﬁned as
the dynamic susceptibility integrated over the dashed white box in
Fig. 2a (see ref. 2) for both FeS and FeSe.16 Within the energy
region probed, χ′′(E) increases with increasing energy but has
about a quarter of the intensity of FeSe (Fig. 2i).
To determine if spin excitations in FeS couple to super-
conductivity, we carried out temperature dependence measure-
ments of the low-energy spin ﬂuctuations near the stripe ordering
wave vector (1, 0). For this purpose, single crystals of FeS were
aligned in the [H, 0, L] scattering plane, and maps of the scattering
intensity at different energies above and below Tc were measured
using
a
cold
neutron
spectrometer.
Figure
3a–d
shows
background subtracted scattering maps at E = 0.75, 2, 4 and 6
meV, respectively, well below Tc at T = 1.5 K. In all cases, we see
rod-like scattering centered at (1, 0, L) with extended scattering
along
the
L direction, consistent with short-range c-axis spin correlations. In
the case of FeSe, a neutron spin resonance coupled to super-
conductivity was found near Er = 4 meV, which corresponds to
approximately 5.3kBTc where kB is the Boltzmann constant, at (1,
0).14, 15 Since the Tc of FeS is about half of that of FeSe, the
resonance in FeS should be present around Er ≈2 meV. To
accurately determine the temperature dependence of the dynamic
susceptibility near (1, 0), we integrate the scattering around (1, 0)
along the L direction, and then ﬁt the proﬁle to a Gaussian on a
linear background [see inset in Fig. 3e]. After correcting the Bose
factor, we show in Fig. 3e the temperature dependence of the
dynamic susceptibility χ′′(E) near the wave vector (1, 0). The energy
dependence of χ′′(E) is weakly temperature-dependent below
about 10 meV ,and shows no evidence for a neutron spin
resonance expected around Er ≈2 meV.
The contrast in the spin dynamics between FeS and FeSe is
striking and provides the clue to the physics of both systems. We
start from the observation that, as in the case of P-for-As
substitution,9 the reduction of Fe-pnictogen distance on moving
from FeSe to FeS facilitates electron hopping, and thus reduces
the electron correlations [Fig. 1b], as seen in spin excitations of
BaFe2(As0.7P0.3)2.36 The notion that FeS is a less correlated analog
of FeSe, is qualitatively consistent with our conclusion that the
spin spectral weight at low energies is much reduced in FeS,
compared to FeSe (Fig. 2i).
The stoichiometric nature of FeS facilitates both quantum
oscillation measurements and electronic structure calculations,
thereby providing the opportunity to address the correlation
physics in a more quantitative way. We therefore turn to the
understanding of both the Fermi surface and the effective
quasiparticle mass. Figure 1e shows the calculated Fermi surfaces
of FeS using combined DFT and DMFT (see supplementary
information for additional data and analysis). Comparing with
schematics of the measured Fermi surfaces of FeSe in Fig. 1f (see
ref. 25) substituting S for Se in FeSe induces the dxy orbital hole
pocket near (1, 1), and changes the properties of the hole pockets
near the Γ point (0, 0) [Fig. 1e]. To quantitatively determine the
differences in the Fermi surfaces of FeS and FeSe, we performed
torque magnetometry and resistivity measurements under high
magnetic ﬁelds. Figure 4 summarizes the quantum oscillatory
phenomena
observed
on
FeS
investigated
through
torque
magnetometry and resistivity measurements under ﬁelds as high
as μ0H = 35T in resistive Bitter magnets equipped with either a 3He
refrigerator or
4He cryostat. Resistivity measurements were
performed on a sample characterized by a residual resistivity
ratio (RRR = R300K/R6K) of 41, using a standard four wire technique,
while torque was measured through a cantilever beam set-up
whose deﬂection was determined capacitively (see supplementary
information for additional data and analysis). We were able to
observe well pronounced Shubnikov-de Haas (SdH) and de
Haas-van Alphen (dHvA) oscillations in the resistance and in
torque
measurements,
respectively.
Typical
dHvA
and
SdH
oscillations, and their respective fast fourier transformations (FFTs)
Fig. 1
Crystal structures, real/reciprocal spaces, Fermi surfaces, and transport measurements of FeS and FeSe. a The crystal structures of FeS or
FeSe in orthorhombic notation. The sulfur (S) can be fully substituted by selenium (Se) to form FeSe. b Schematic illustration of S and Se atoms
in FeS and FeSe compounds. c Illustration of stripe (red) and checkerboard (green) static long range AF order in real space. The orthorhombic
long-axis direction is along the a-axis for stripe AF order. d The corresponding positions for stripe and checkerboard orders, and excitations in
reciprocal space. The areas of the Brillouin zones are marked as pink and blue, respectively. Schematics of Fermi surfaces corresponding to FeS
e and FeSe f with possible nesting wave vectors marked by arrows. The orbital components (dxz, dyz, dxy) for different Fermi surfaces are shown
in different colors. g Schematics of the set-up used to measure elasto-resistance using a physical property measurement system.10 h Strain
dependence of the resistivity anisotropy Δρ/ρ = 2(ρa−ρb)/(ρa + ρb) for FeS, FeSe, and BaFe1.97Ni0.03As2 at different temperatures
Spin excitations and Fermi surface of superconducting FeS
H Man et al
3
Published in partnership with Nanjing University
npj Quantum Materials (2017)  14 


---
# Page 4

Spin excitations and Fermi surface of superconducting FeS
H Man et al
4
npj Quantum Materials (2017)  14 
Published in partnership with Nanjing University


---
# Page 5

for H k caxis are shown in Fig. 4a, b, respectively. Although their
amplitudes differ, most of the SdH frequencies observed below
1 kT, which are indicated by the peaks labeled as α, β, κ, δ and ϵ,
are reproduced in the dHvA spectrum. Only ν and γ are not visible
in the dHvA data. Furthermore, the prominent dHvA peaks at
F = 370T and 400T seem to be suppressed in the SdH data, which
is attributable to the lower temperature for the torque measure-
ments. Here, it is important to emphasize that the SdH-effect is
superimposed onto an electrical transport quantity (resistivity),
which is driven by scattering processes, while the dHvA one is
superimposed onto a thermodynamic variable (magnetic suscept-
ibility), which in a metal is dependent upon the density of states at
the Fermi level. Therefore, it is not surprising that the relative
amplitude between peaks observed in the FFT spectra is
technique-dependent. In addition, different crystals from a given
synthesis batch are likely to display variations in mobility. This
should affect the detection of some of the orbits, and hence also
produce comparative differences in the FFT spectra collected from
the different crystals, as seen in our experiments.
The effective mass μ of the different orbits can be extracted
from the temperature dependence of the FFT amplitude as
depicted in Fig. 4c. The decrease of the FFT amplitude with
increasing temperature is described by the Lifshitz–Kosevich
damping factor RT ¼ πλ= sinhðπλÞ. Considering only the ﬁrst
harmonic, one gets λ = 2πkBT/βH, where β ∝1/μ. This analysis
yields effective masses of 1.1(1)m0 for the α, β and κ orbits as well
as 1.7(1), 1.8(2), 1.9(2) and 1.8(2)m0 for the δ, ϵ, ν and γ orbits. Thus
charge carriers in FeS have lower effective masses than those of
FeSe whose masses range from 1.9 to 7.2m0.37 Notice that we
obtain somewhat heavier masses for the α and β orbits than the
values reported in ref. 38. We re-analyzed our data by, for instance,
extracting the effective masses from different ﬁeld windows.
However, we found that this does not explain the difference
between the effective mass values extracted from both studies.
This is consistent with our DFT + DMFT calculations with mass
enhancement m*/mband of 1.9/1.6 for t2g/eg orbitals in FeS, which
is much smaller than that in FeSe.28 The whole angular
dependence of the SdH and dHvA frequencies as a function of
θ is shown in Fig. 4d, where θ denotes the angle between H and
the crystallographic c-axis. Based on the dHvA measurements, we
observe a multitude of frequencies especially in the region
between 0.3 and 0.6kT, as well as at least three additional Fermi
surface pockets with F ≥1kT. While tracking the individual
frequencies that belong to certain Fermi surface sheets is a
difﬁcult task in the dHvA data, the picture seems to become
clearer for the SdH oscillations. Nevertheless, we were not able to
observe SdH oscillations for θ > 30°. The lines depicted in Fig. 4d
are intended to provide a hint on the evolution of the frequencies
as a function of θ. However, a precise comparison with band
structure calculations is required to associate the observed
frequencies with speciﬁc Fermi surface sheets (see supplementary
information for additional data and analysis). Band structure
calculations
ﬁnd
that
the
Fermi
surface
consists
of
two-
dimensional (2D) cylindrical Fermi surface sheets at the center
and at the corners of the Brillouin zone, respectively.27 2D orbits
would lead to a F / ðcosðθÞÞ1 dependence, which are not clearly
observed here. Although the angular dependence of some of the
frequencies (e. g., α and β) could match a cylindrical Fermi surface,
the bulk of the observed frequencies are clearly 3D in character
and cannot be described by the currently available band structure
calculations. A recent report on the SdH on FeS crystals detected
only the two main peaks observed in our FFT spectra, probably
because the measurements were performed at much lower
ﬁelds.38 However, the authors conclude that the Fermi surface
of FeS has a 2D character in contrast to our observations.
Nevertheless, in their study, the SdH oscillations were observed in
a quite narrow angular range, i.e. Δθ~ ± 30° with respect to the c-
axis, which is not a wide enough range to reach a deﬁnitive
conclusion on the dimensionality of its Fermi surface. On the other
hand, the observation of two of the same frequencies, or cross
sectional areas, in samples grown by different groups further
conﬁrms that we are detecting the intrinsic Fermi surface of FeS.
DISCUSSION
In an attempt to further understand the observed quantum
oscillations in Fig. 4a–d, we carried out ﬁrst-principles DFT plus
single-site DMFT calculations in the paramagnetic phase of FeS,
using
the
experimentally
determined
FeS
crystal
structure
(see supplementary information for additional data and analysis)
and Hubbard U = 5.0 eV and Hund's J = 0.8 eV. When computing
the 3D Fermi surface and the dHvA frequencies, we further
incorporated the corrections from the long-range exchange
interaction by shifting the hole (electron) Fermi surface down
(up) by 50 meV. The calculated 3D Fermi surfaces are shown in
Fig. 4e. In particular, the middle hole Fermi surface and the two
electron Fermi surfaces are quite 3D-like, with large variation of
the pocket size (cross section along the [0, 0, 1] direction) along
the kz direction. As shown in Fig. 4f, the DFT + DMFT-calculated
dHvA frequencies agree well with experimental values. We further
assign each dHvA frequency to its corresponding position on the
3D Fermi surface (see supplementary information for additional
data and analysis).
The reduced strength of the electrons correlations in FeS
compared to FeSe also provides the understanding of the contrast
in the spin dynamics of FeS to those of FeSe. Figure 4g, h shows the
energy dependence of the ground state magnetic scattering S(Q, E)
for FeS and FeSe, respectively, calculated through a combination of
DFT and DMFT methods.28, 29 The main conclusion from these
calculations is that the spin excitations are much more energetic
for FeS than for FeSe, with the strongest scattering for FeSe
occurring below 170 meV, while for FeS, they extend to energies
well beyond 400 meV similar to the case of iron phosphites.29
It is also instructive to compare the spin dynamics of the
superconducting state in FeS with the results on FeSe and iron
pnictide superconductors. For most iron-based superconductors,
the appearance of superconductivity is coupled with changes in
the spin excitations with the opening of a spin gap, and inducing
a neutron spin resonance near the stripe AF wave vector.2 The
presence of a resonance has mostly been interpreted as due to
quasiparticle excitations between the hole-Fermi surfaces near the
Γ-point and the electron Fermi surfaces near (1, 0) as a
consequence of Fermi surface nesting.2 Given the hole and
electron Fermi surfaces in FeS [Fig. 1e] and FeSe [Fig. 1f], one
Fig. 2
Spin excitations of FeS obtained by time-of-ﬂight neutron spectroscopy. a–d Constant energy cuts measured at T = 4 K at the energy
transfers indicated on top of each panel. Red dashed lines in a indicate integrating area in reciprocal space for the 1D cuts in panels (e–h). The
white dashed box indicates the area of integration to estimate the local dynamic susceptibility χ′′(E) in panel (i). e–h Constant energy cuts
through reciprocal space stripe AF wave vectors along the [1, K,] direction at energies corresponding to panels (a–d). The gray solid lines
indicate ﬁts to the data extracted from excitations in FeSe at the same energy range.16 Gray arrow indicates the checkerboard wave vector
observed in FeSe, which is absent in FeS. i Comparison of the energy dependence of the local dynamic susceptibility χ′′(E) for FeS and FeSe.16
The open and ﬁlled circles are data taken at L = 0.5,1.5,…, and 0,1,2,…, respectively
Spin excitations and Fermi surface of superconducting FeS
H Man et al
5
Published in partnership with Nanjing University
npj Quantum Materials (2017)  14 


---
# Page 6

would expect the presence of spin ﬂuctuations in both materials
at the commensurate stripe AF wave vector (1, 0). Our ﬁnding that
FeS is a weakly correlated analog of FeSe, provides a natural
understanding
of the
lack
of
a neutron
resonance.
More
quantitatively, from magnetic and transport measurements, it
was argued that FeSe is deep inside Bardeen–Cooper–Schrieffer
(BCS) and Bose–Einstein-condensate (BCS-BES) cross-over regime,
where the ratio of superconducting gap Δ to Fermi energy εF is of
the order of unity.39, 40 From the experimentally obtained values
for the SdH frequencies F and the effective masses μ in FeS, we
can estimate the Fermi energy ϵF by using: ϵF ¼ h2k2
F=2μ, A ¼ πkF
2
and F = ħA/2πe. Assuming that the superconducting gap Δ can be
estimated by using the BCS formula for a weakly coupled
superconductor
for
FeS:
Δ(T→0) = 1.764kBTc = 0.65 meV
with
Fig. 3
Temperature dependence of the low-energy spin excitations of FeS. 2D images of neutron scattering intensity in the [H, 0, L] scattering
plane at energies of a E = 1.25, b 2, c 4, and d 6 meV (see supplementary information for additional data and analysis). The high scattering
intensity near the Bragg peak positions of (0, 0, ± 1) is due to acoustic phonon scattering. Spin excitations in FeS form a ridge of scattering
centered at (1, 0, L) positions. e Temperature dependence of the stripe AF spin excitations at different energies below and above Tc = 4 K,
respectively. Spin excitations are obtained by integrating L from −0.7 ≤L ≤0.7, and ﬁtted with a linear background and a Gaussian peak as
shown in the inset. The black line is a ﬁt of the energy dependence of the spin excitations with a relaxation form χ′′(E) = AΓE/[(Γ/2)2 + E2], where
Γ = 8.2 ± 2.8 meV. Inset: H-scans at E = 2 meV and at 1.5 and 6 K, respectively. The solid lines are Gaussian ﬁts on a linear background
Spin excitations and Fermi surface of superconducting FeS
H Man et al
6
npj Quantum Materials (2017)  14 
Published in partnership with Nanjing University


---
# Page 7

Spin excitations and Fermi surface of superconducting FeS
H Man et al
7
Published in partnership with Nanjing University
npj Quantum Materials (2017)  14 


---
# Page 8

Tc = 4.3 K, we can calculate the ratio of superconducting gap to
Fermi energy as shown in the Table 1. It clearly shows that the
electron pairing in FeS is much closer to a BCS superconductor,
again in line with our ﬁnding of a correlation strength in FeS that
is considerably reduced than that of FeSe.
To summarize, our inelastic neutron scattering experiments
below 100 meV indicate that the spin excitations in FeS occur at
the stripe AF wave vector (1, 0) with no observable signal at the
checkerboard ordering wave vector (1, 1), and are much weaker
than those of FeSe (Fig. 2). The weaker correlations in FeS is
conﬁrmed by our observation, via quantum oscillations measure-
ments, of a minute enhancement in the effective mass relative to
its non-interacting counterpart, and lead to a reduction of the low-
energy spin spectral weight while increasing the energy scale for
the (1,1) excitations. The weaker correlations also imply that FeS is
much closer to a BCS superconductor, which allow us to
understand why the low-energy spin excitations do not directly
respond to superconductivity (Fig. 3). These results for the
isostructural
and
stoichiometric
FeS
highlight
the
strongly
correlated nature of FeSe. Indeed, the electron spectral weight
in FeSe mainly resides in the incoherent part, which induces quasi-
local moments. The ensuing physics of frustrated magnetism not
only yields the nematic order but also is manifested in the co-
existing spin excitations at (1, 0) and (1, 1) wave vectors.17, 18 The
strong correlations in FeSe also enhance the effective quasiparticle
interactions
in its superconducting
state,
giving rise to a
resonance spin excitation in FeSe.14, 15 As such, our ﬁndings
elucidate both the origin of the nematic order and the nature of
the superconductivity in FeSe.
METHODS
Magnetic torque and transport measurements on FeS were performed at
the National High Magnetic Field Laboratory in Tallahassee, Florida
(see supplementary information for additional data and analysis). Our
inelastic neutron scattering measurements were carried out at the
Fine-Resolution Fermi Chopper Spectrometer (SEQUOIA) at the Spallation
Neutron Source, Oak Ridge National Laboratory and at the Multi Axis
Crystal Spectrometer (MACS) at NIST Center for Neutron Research (NCNR),
National Institute of Standards and Technology. Sample alignment for
MACS and initial charactization is done at Spin-Polarized Inelastic Neutron
Spectrometer, National Institute of Standards and Technology. We have
also performed neutron powder diffraction experiments on the BT-1,
NCNR. Single crystals of FeS (6.0 g for SEQUOIA and 6.5 g for MACS) were
grown using hydro-thermo method and characterizations of our samples
are discussed in the supplementary information for additional data and
analysis. Pieces with size larger than 3 × 3 mm2 were used in the neutron
scattering experiment. The elasto-resistance measurements were carried
out using PPMS with a strain gauge attached on the piezo stack to
measure strain at different temperatures. Measurements were performed
by changing voltage on piezo stack and results presented here were scaled
to actual strain in the sample. To facilitate an easy comparison with the
results on FeSe,14–16 we used the orthorhombic notation with a = b ≈5.19
Å and c = 5.03 Å for FeS. In this notation, the stripe AF spin excitations for
FeS occur at (±1, 0, L) positions in reciprocal space. Samples are co-aligned
in the [H, 0, L] scattering plane with a mosaic of 8°. In the SEQUOIA
experiment, the incident beam with Ei = 80,150 meV was along the c-axis of
the crystals. In the MACS experiment, Ef = 5 meV was used for excitations
above 1.6 meV and Ef = 3.7 meV was used for excitations below 1.25 meV.
Details of DFT + DMFT calculations are described in the supplementary
information for additional data and analysis).
ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS
The single crystal growth and neutron scattering work at Rice is supported by the U.S.
DOE, BES under contract no. DE-SC0012311 (P.D.). A part of the materials work at Rice
is supported by the Robert A. Welch Foundation Grants No. C-1839 (P.D.). The
theoretical work at Rice is supported by the NSF Grant No. DMR-1611392 and the
Robert A. Welch Foundation Grant No. C-1411 (Q.S.). Z.P.Y acknowledges ﬁnancial
support by the National Natural Science Foundation of China, Grant No. 11674030,
the National Key Research and Development Program of China under contract No.
2016YFA0302300. L.B. is supported by DOE-BES through award DE-SC0002613. The
NHMFL is supported by NSF through NSF-DMR-1157490 and the State of Florida. The
use of ORNL's SNS was sponsored by the Scientiﬁc User Facilities Division, Ofﬁce of
BES, US DOE. The work at JHU was supported by the US DOE, BES, Division of
Materials Sciences and Engineering under award DE-FG02-08ER46544 (CB). I.E. was
supported by the joint DFG-ANR Project (ER 463/8-1) and DAAD PPP USA N57316180.
AUTHOR CONTRIBUTIONS
Single crystal growth and neutron scattering experiments were carried out by H.M., J.
G., R.Z. with assistance from M.F., M.S., Q.H., Y.S., J.W.L., C.B. and P.D. W.Y.W., and Y.S.
performed ICP measurement. Quantum oscillation measurements and analysis were
performed by R.U.S. and L.B. Theoretical understandings were performed by Z.P.Y.
(DFT + DMFT), D.J.S, T.H., I.E. (DFT), and Q.S. (electron correlations and magnetic
frustration). P.D. oversees the entire project. The paper was written by P.D., H.M., Z.P.
Y., L.B., I.E., Q.S., and all authors made comments.
COMPETING INTEREST
The authors declare that they have no competing interests.
Fig. 4
Quantum oscillations, Fermi surfaces and spin ﬂuctuation spectra for FeS. a, b dHvA and SdH oscillations after background subtraction
(red lines) with their associated FFTs (black lines) for magnetic ﬁelds applied parallel to the crystallographic c-axis. The dHvA signal was
obtained at T = 0.35 K and the SdH signal at T = 1.35 K, respectively. Greek letters (α, β, γ, ...) indicate the most prominent peaks in the FFT
spectra which can be assigned to extremal cross sectional areas of the Fermi surface. c Fourier transform spectra of the SdH oscillations for
H k c at selected temperatures ranging from 1.35 to 6.1 K. Insets: temperature dependence of the FFT amplitude for the β and γ orbits as well
as their effective masses as obtained from the Lifshitz–Kosevich formalism (magenta lines). d Angular dependence of the dHvA (open
diamonds) and SdH (ﬁlled symbols) frequencies, respectively. The dHvA and SdH measurements cover angles ranging from H k c (θ = 0°) to H⊥c
(θ = 90°). Solid lines represent a suggestion as to how the individual frequencies might evolve as a function of θ. e DFT + DMFT calculated
Fermi surfaces. The Fermi surface drawing is determined based on the tetragonal structure, and the corresponding orthorhombic directions
[1, 0] and [0, 1] are marked by arrows. f Comparison of frequencies of quantum oscillations with DFT + DMFT calculations. Peak position (black
square) is obtained by FFT; the magnitude of resistance data is shown in blue. The expected ground state spin excitations of FeS (g) and FeSe
(h) as calculated by combined DFT + DMFT
Table 1.
Summary of experimental data extracted from both the de-
Haas-van-Alphen and the Shubnikov-de-Haas-effect
Branch
F(kT)
μ=μ0
A(%BZ)
kF(Å−1)
εF(meV)
Δ(T→0)/εF
α
0.15
1.1
0.49
0.068
15.8
0.041
β
0.21
1.1
0.67
0.079
21.7
0.029
κ
0.29
1.1
0.96
0.094
30.9
0.021
δ
0.46
1.7
1.48
0.12
31.1
0.021
ε
1.07
1.8
3.48
0.18
68.8
0.0094
ν
1.40
1.9
4.55
0.21
85.1
0.0076
γ
1.89
1.8
6.14
0.24
121
0.0054
2δ
0.92
2.9
2.96
0.17
38
0.017
Here α, β, ... etc. stands for the frequencies observed in the FFT spectra, μ
stands for the effective mass in units of the free electron mass μ0, A(%BZ)
for the area of the cyclotronic orbit relative to the area of the Brillouin
zone, kF(Å−1) for the corresponding Fermi vector, εF(meV) corresponds to
the associated Fermi energy and Δ(T→0)/εF for the resulting ratio of the
superconducting gap to the Fermi energy
Spin excitations and Fermi surface of superconducting FeS
H Man et al
8
npj Quantum Materials (2017)  14 
Published in partnership with Nanjing University


---
# Page 9

REFERENCES
1. Scalapino, D. J. A common thread: the pairing interaction for unconventional
superconductors. Rev. Mod. Phys. 84, 1383–1417 (2012).
2. Dai, P. C. Antiferromagnetic order and spin dynamics in iron based super-
conductors. Rev. Mod. Phys. 87, 855–896 (2015).
3. Si, Q., Yu, R. & Abrahams, E. High temperature superconductivity in iron pnictides
and chalcogenides. Nat. Rev. Mater. 1, 16017 (2016).
4. Fradkin, E., Kivelson, S. A., Lawler, M. J., Eisenstein, J. P. & Mackenzie, A. P. Nematic
Fermi ﬂuids in condensed matter physics. Annu. Rev. Condens. Matter Phys. 1,
153–178 (2010).
5. Fisher, I. R., Degiorgi, L. & Shen, Z. X. In-plane electronic anisotropy of under-
doped 122 Fe-arsenide superconductors revealed by measurements of det-
winned single crystals. Rep. Prog. Phys. 74, 124506 (2011).
6. Fernandes, R. M., Chubukov, A. V. & Schmalian, J. What drives nematic order in
iron-based superconductors? Nat. Phys. 10, 97–104 (2014).
7. Böhmer, A. E. & Meingast, C. Electronic nematic susceptibility of iron-based
superconductors. C. R. Phys. 17, 90–112 (2016).
8. Lu, X. Y. et al. Nematic spin correlations in the tetragonal state of uniaxial-strained
BaFe2xNixAs2. Science 345, 657–660 (2014).
9. Dai, J., Si, Q., Zhu, J.-X. & Abrahams, E. Iron pnictides as a new setting for quantum
criticality. Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 106, 4118–4121 (2009).
10. Kuo, H.-H., Chu, J.-H., Palmstrom, J. C., Kivelson, S. A. & Fisher, I. R. Ubiquitous
signatures of nematic quantum criticality in optimally doped Fe-based super-
conductors. Science 352, 958–962 (2016).
11. McQueen, T. et al. Tetragonal-to-orthorhombic structural phase transition at 90 K
in the superconductor Fe1.01Se. Phys. Rev. Lett. 103, 057002 (2009).
12. Baek, S. H. et al. Orbital-driven nematicity in FeSe. Nat. Mater. 14, 210–214 (2015).
13. Böhmer, A. E. et al. Origin of the tetragonal-to-orthorhombic phase transition in
FeSe: A combined thermodynamic and NMR study of nematicity. Phys. Rev. Lett.
114, 027001 (2015).
14. Rahn, M. C., Ewings, R. A., Sedlmaier, S. J., Clarke, S. J. & Boothroyd, A. T. Strong
(π,0) Spin ﬂuctuations in βFeSe observed by neutron spectroscopy. Phys. Rev. B
91, 180501(R) (2015).
15. Wang, Q. et al. Strong interplay between stripe spin ﬂuctuations, nematicity and
superconductivity in FeSe. Nat. Mater. 15, 159–163 (2016).
16. Wang, Q. et al. Magnetic ground state of FeSe. Nat. Commun. 7, 12182 (2016).
17. Yu, R. & Si, Q. Antiferroquadrupolar and Ising-nematic orders of a frustrated
bilinear-biquadratic Heisenberg model and implications for the magnetism of
FeSe. Phys. Rev. Lett. 115, 116401 (2015).
18. Wang, F., Kivelson, S. A. & Lee, D.-H. Nematicity and quantum paramagnetism in
FeSe. Nat. Phys 11, 959–963 (2015).
19. Glasbrenner, J. K. et al. Effect of magnetic frustration on nematicity and super-
conductivity in iron chalcogenides. Nat. Phys 11, 953–958 (2015).
20. Cao, H.-Y., Chen, S., Xiang, H. & Gong, X.-G. Antiferromagnetic ground state with
pair-checkerboard order in FeSe. Phys. Rev. B 91, 020504 (2015).
21. Chubukov, A. V., Fernandes, R. M. & Schmalian, J. Origin of nematic order in FeSe.
Phys. Rev. B 91, 201105 (2015).
22. Yamakawa, Y., Onari, S. & Kontani, H. Nematicity and magnetism in FeSe and
other families of Fe-based superconductors. Phys. Rev. X 6, 021032 (2016).
23. Lai, X. et al. Observation of superconductivity in tetragonal FeS. J. Am. Chem. Soc.
137, 10148 (2015).
24. Borg, Ch. K. H. et al. Strong anisotropy in nearly ideal tetrahedral superconducting
FeS single crystals. Phys. Rev. B 93, 094522 (2016).
25. Watson, M. D. et al. Suppression of orbital ordering by chemical pressure in
FeSe1−xSx. Phys. Rev. B 92, 121108 (2015).
26. Wang, L. R. et al. Superconductivity-enhanced nematicity and ‘s+d′ gap sym-
metry in Fe(Se1−xSx). Phys. Status Solidi B 254, 1600153 (2017). doi:10.1002/
pssb.201600153.
27. Subedi, A., Zhang, L., Singh, D. J. & Du, M. H. Density functional study of FeS, FeSe,
and FeTe: electronic structure, magnetism, phonons, and superconductivity. Phys.
Rev. B 78, 134514 (2008).
28. Yin, Z. P., Haule, K. & Kotliar, G. Kinetic frustration and the nature of the magnetic
and paramagnetic states in iron pnictides and iron chalcogenides. Nat. Mater. 10,
932–935 (2011).
29. Yin, Z. P., Haule, K. & Kotliar, G. Spin dynamics and orbital-antiphase pairing
symmetry in iron-based superconductors. Nat. Phys 10, 845–850 (2014).
30. Lu, X. Y. et al. Impact of uniaxial pressure on structural and magnetic
phase transitions in electron-doped iron pnictides. Phys. Rev. B 93, 134519
(2016).
31. Hosoi, S. et al. Nematic quantum critical point without magnetism in FeSe1−xSx
superconductors. Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 113, 8139–8143 (2016).
32. Watson, M. D. et al. Emergence of the nematic electronic state in FeSe. Phys. Rev.
B 91, 155106 (2015).
33. Tanatar, M. A. et al. Origin of the resistivity anisotropy in the nematic phase of
FeSe. Phys. Rev. Lett. 117, 127001 (2016).
34. Holenstein, S. et al. Coexistence of low-moment magnetism and super-
conductivity in tetragonal FeS and suppression of Tc under pressure. Phys. Rev. B
93, 140506 (2016).
35. Kirschner, F. K. K. et al. Robustness of superconductivity to competing magnetic
phases in tetragonal FeS. Phys. Rev. B 94, 134509 (2016).
36. Hu, D. et al. Spin excitations in optimally P-doped BaFe2(As0.7P0.3)2 super-
conductor. Phys. Rev. B 94, 094504 (2016).
37. Terashima, T. et al. Anomalous Fermi surface in FeSe seen by Shubnikovâ€“de
Haas oscillation measurements. Phys. Rev. B 90, 144517 (2014).
38. Terashima, T. et al. Upper critical ﬁeld and quantum oscillations in tetragonal
superconducting FeS. Phys. Rev. B 94, 100503 (2016).
39. Kasahara, S. et al. Field-induced superconducting phase of FeSe in the BCS-BEC
cross-over. Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 111, 16309–16313 (2014).
40. Kasahara, S. et al. Giant superconducting ﬂuctuations in the compensated
semimetal FeSe at the BCS-BEC crossover. Nat. Commun. 7, 12843 (2016).
This work is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution 4.0
International License. The images or other third party material in this
article are included in the article’s Creative Commons license, unless indicated
otherwise in the credit line; if the material is not included under the Creative Commons
license, users will need to obtain permission from the license holder to reproduce the
material. To view a copy of this license, visit http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/
4.0/
© The Author(s) 2017
Supplementary Information accompanies the paper on the npj Quantum Materials website (doi:10.1038/s41535-017-0019-6).
Spin excitations and Fermi surface of superconducting FeS
H Man et al
9
Published in partnership with Nanjing University
npj Quantum Materials (2017)  14 


---
