# Page 1

1
SCIeNtIfIC REPOrTs | 7: 6437 | DOI:10.1038/s41598-017-06651-9
www.nature.com/scientificreports
Complex magnetic 
incommensurability and 
electronic charge transfer through 
the ferroelectric transition in 
multiferroic Co3TeO6
Chi-Hung Lee1, Chin-Wei Wang2, Yang Zhao   3,4, Wen-Hsien Li1, Jeffrey W. Lynn3, A. Brooks 
Harris5, Kirrily Rule6, Hung-Duen Yang7 & Helmuth Berger8
Polarized and unpolarized neutron diffractions have been carried out to investigate the nature of the 
magnetic structures and transitions in monoclinic Co3TeO6. As the temperature is lowered below 26 K 
long range order develops, which is fully incommensurate (ICM) in all three crystallographic directions. 
Below 19.5 K additional commensurate magnetic peaks develop, consistent with the Γ4 irreducible 
representation, along with a splitting of the ICM peaks along the h direction which indicates that there 
are two separate sets of magnetic modulation vectors. Below 18 K, this small additional magnetic 
incommensurability disappears, ferroelectricity develops, an additional commensurate magnetic 
structure consistent with Γ3 irreducible representation appears, and the k component of the ICM 
wave vector disappears. Synchrotron x-ray diffraction measurements demonstrate that there is a 
significant shift of the electronic charge distribution from the Te ions at the crystallographic 8 f sites to 
the neighboring Co and O ions. These results, together with the unusually small electric polarization, its 
strong magnetic field dependence, and the negative thermal expansion in all three lattice parameters, 
suggest this material is an antiferroelectric. Below15 K the k component of the ICM structure reappears, 
along with second-order ICM Bragg peaks, which polarized neutron data demonstrate are magnetic in 
origin.
Many novel physical behaviors have recently been identified in the M3TeO6-class of metal tellurates1, where M is a 
first-row transition metal2–11. Simple commensurate (CM) magnetic structures as well as complex incommensurate 
(ICM) spin structures7–11, and spontaneous and magnetic-field-driven electrical polarizations2, 9–11, have all been 
detected. In particular, the monoclinic cobalt tellurate Co3TeO6 has been characterized9–19 as a type-II multiferroic, 
where the order parameters of electrical polarization and spontaneous magnetization are closely coupled3, 20–27. 
As the temperature is lowered, the system initially orders at TM1 = 26 K with a fully ICM magnetic structure, 
followed by a separate CM component ordering at TM2 = 19.5 K coexisting with the ICM magnetic order, a fer-
roelectric transition at TM3 = 18 K coupled to a change in the magnetic structures, and finally a transition at 
TM4 = 15 K into the magnetic ground state. We note that TM4 was defined as 16 K in our previous reports14, 17, 
while the present results reveal that this transition is better defined by 15 K, the temperature below which the k 
component of the ICM structure reappears. These transitions are naturally linked to the crystal geometry, where 
1Department of Physics, National Central University, Jhongli, 32001, Taiwan. 2Neutron Group, National 
Synchrotron Radiation Research Center, Hsinchu, 30076, Taiwan. 3NIST Center for Neutron Research, National 
Institute of Standards and Technology, Gaithersburg, Maryland, 20899, USA. 4Department of Materials Science 
and Engineering, University of Maryland, College Park, MD, 20742, USA. 5Department of Physics and Astronomy, 
University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA, 19104, USA. 6Bragg Institute, Australian Nuclear Science and 
Technology Organisation, Lucas Heights, NSW, 2234, Australia. 7Department of Physics and Center for Nanoscience 
and Nanotechnology, National Sun Yat-Sen University, Kaohsiung, 80424, Taiwan. 8Institute of Physics of Complex 
Matter, EPFL, Lausanne, Switzerland. Correspondence and requests for materials should be addressed to W.-H.L. 
(email: whli@phy.ncu.edu.tw)
Received: 24 March 2017
Accepted: 14 June 2017
Published online: 25 July 2017
OPEN


---
# Page 2

www.nature.com/scientificreports/
2
SCIeNtIfIC REPOrTs | 7: 6437 | DOI:10.1038/s41598-017-06651-9
Co3TeO6 crystallizes into a monoclinic symmetry with the space group C2/c, with 36 Co ions in a chemical unit 
cell9, 17. The complex crystalline structure of Co3TeO6 can be viewed as being composed of six distorted Co3Te 
layers that are interconnected through O ions, forming significantly distorted corner-, edge-, and face-sharing 
CoO6 octahedra and CoO4 tetrahedra. The TeO6 octahedra are isolated from each other, but fill the spatial gaps 
between the CoO6 octahedra. There are five crystallographically distinct Co ions that occupy two very differ-
ent layered arrangements (Fig. 1)9, 17. One is comprised of distorted zig-zag Co-O-Co chains (marked Layer B, 
Fig. 2a) which mediate antiferromagnetic superexchange (SE) interactions for the Co spins. The Co ions in the 
Figure 1.  Network of the severely distorted Co/Te layers viewed along the [1, 0, −1] axis direction, without 
the presence of interconnecting O ions for clarity. The layers marked A′ and B′ can be reached by a translation 
operation of layers marked A and B, respectively, through (a/2, b/2, 0).
Figure 2.  (a) Atomic arrangement of the Co ions in Layer B. The Co ions form well separated zigzag chains. 
(b) Atomic arrangement of the Co and Te ions in Layer A. The Co ions crystalize into a significantly distorted 
honeycomb, with the Te ions occupying the centers.


---
# Page 3

www.nature.com/scientificreports/
3
SCIeNtIfIC REPOrTs | 7: 6437 | DOI:10.1038/s41598-017-06651-9
other separate layers (marked Layer A, Fig. 2b) form a severely distorted honeycomb web, with the Te ions located 
in the channels. The Co-O bond lengths and Co-O-Co bond angles in both Layer A and Layer B vary widely. 
Their differences can be as large as 50%, which result in widely varying magnetic interactions that compete within 
the unit cell. The spin structure at 3 K has been reported17, where the Co spins in the zig-zag chains in Layer B 
order into a complex ICM spin arrangement (Fig. 3), with a modulation vector of q = (0.357, 0.103, 0.087) for 
the magnetic propagation vector. In contrast to the previous data taken in a single scattering plane14, the present 
experiments demonstrate that all three components of the ordering wave vector are incommensurate, along with 
second-order ICM Bragg peaks that are also magnetic. The Co spins in Layer A, on the other hand, develop a 
simple CM antiferromagnetic order with Γ4 symmetry at zero wave vector. The non-collinear spin arrangement 
together with the appearance of ICM components for the Co spins in the well-separated zig-zag chains in Layer 
B show that they experience more complicated magnetic couplings than the Co spins in Layer A. This is linked to 
the Co-Co separations in the zig-zag chains being significantly shorter (3.30 Å in average), so that the secondary 
interactions are also evidently revealed in addition to the indirect Co-O-Co SE interactions. The delicate balance 
of the magnetic interactions with temperature generates a cascade of magnetic transitions coupled to the lattice.
In this study we focus on new aspects of this interesting but complicated multiferroic, including the magnetic 
structure, charge density, and coupling to the ferroelectric order. The evolution of the ICM propagation vector 
with temperature reveals that all three (h, k and l) reciprocal lattice directions exhibit incommensurability. In 
addition, we demonstrate directly that the intensity map of the k-l scattering plane excludes having CM order-
ing at the (0 1/2 1/4) wave vector, suggested in a report9 based on early results from a powder sample and pro-
file refinement. We also observe second-order ICM reflections that develop below 15 K, that polarized neutrons 
demonstrate are magnetic in nature rather than structural. Finally, synchrotron powder x-ray diffraction data 
show that for the Te ions at the crystallographic 8 f sites a significant amount of the electric charge shifts from 
the Te ions to their neighboring Co and O ions upon cooling through the ferroelectric transition. This finding 
Figure 3.  Schematic drawing of the Co spin arrangements in (a) Layer B and (b) Layer A. The Co spins in the 
wavy honeycomb web form a simple antiferromagnetic arrangement; whereas those in the zigzag chains form a 
non-collinear spin arrangement. The moments of all Co ions lie in the crystallographic a-c plane.


---
# Page 4

www.nature.com/scientificreports/
4
SCIeNtIfIC REPOrTs | 7: 6437 | DOI:10.1038/s41598-017-06651-9
is significant because the spontaneous polarization is very small for a ferroelectric, and in this case may indicate 
that the ferroelectricity is associated with some type of larger antiferroelectric order parameter as we discuss later.
Materials and Methods
Single crystals of Co3TeO6 were synthesized through chemical vapor transport redox reactions as described pre-
viously14, 17. The single crystal used in the present measurements was the same as in our previous work, and 
weighed 101 mg with a size of 14.1 × 2.2 × 0.9 mm3. A number of small crystals were crushed into powder for 
x-ray powder diffraction measurements. X-ray diffraction was first used to check the powdered sample. No obvi-
ous differences were found in x-ray diffraction patterns taken from different portions of the powdered sample. 
Details of the sample fabrication and characterization can be found in the Supplementary Information. Although 
the thermal magnetization of Co3TeO6 has been discussed in detail2, 9, 13, 18, 19 and the results are not a part of the 
principal findings that are communicating, the thermal variations of ac magnetic susceptibility, for the purpose 
of completeness, are provided in the Supplementary Information as well.
Single crystal neutron diffraction measurements were conducted at the NIST Center for Neutron Research 
using the BT-7 triple-axis spectrometer with λ = 2.359 Å defined by PG (002) crystals at both the monochromator 
and analyzer positions, or a position-sensitive-detector (PSD) without energy analysis28. Data were also collected 
at the Bragg Institute, ANSTO, using the thermal triple-axis spectrometer Taipan [λ = 2.35 Å defined by PG (002) 
Figure 4.  Neutron-diffraction intensity maps in the (h0l) scattering plane near the (203) Bragg position 
observed at (a) 22.5 K, (b) 16.5 K, and (c) 3 K. The strong powder ring is from the Al sample holder. Below 
the initial ordering at TM1 = 26 K there is no detectable intensity at the commensurate (203) Bragg position at 
22.5 K (a), but two satellite magnetic reflections are revealed arising from the development of incommensurate 
magnetic order. We remark that the incommensurability occurs in all three components of the wave vector, 
but in this scattering plane the larger vertical divergence of the instrument integrates of the k components. 
(b) Below TM2 = 19.5 K the commensurate (203) magnetic reflection (and equivalent CM peaks) appears, 
accompanied by two satellite magnetic reflections at (203) ± (qh, qk, ql). (c) In the ground state (3 K), in addition 
to the two first-order satellites, two second-order satellite magnetic reflections at the (203) ± 2(qh, qk, ql) 
positions are also visible.


---
# Page 5

www.nature.com/scientificreports/
5
SCIeNtIfIC REPOrTs | 7: 6437 | DOI:10.1038/s41598-017-06651-9
crystals at both the monochromator and analyzer positions]. The polarized neutron-diffraction measurements 
were conducted on BT-7, using 3He polarizers placed both before and after the sample position for polarization 
analysis29. The neutron polarization direction was realized by a guide field along (horizontal H-field) or perpen-
dicular (vertical V-field) to the scattering plane. The single crystal was mounted to allow access to the (hk0), (h0l) 
or (0kl) crystallographic plane for a complete h-k-l reciprocal space scattering intensity survey. One point to keep 
in mind about the neutron measurements is that the instruments have quite coarse vertical resolution, which 
integrates the scattering perpendicular to the scattering plane. For incommensurate peaks that are displaced not 
too far away from the scattering plane this still allows their observation by projecting their intensity onto the scat-
tering plane. If one has a reflection at an arbitrary wave vector q1 = (h, k, l), then in view of the C2/c symmetry of 
the crystal one expects reflections at qi with i = 1~4, where q1,2 =  ± (h, k, l) and q3,4 = ±(h, −k, l). We observe such 
reflections by monitoring the scattering in one or more of the h = 0, k = 0, or l = 0 planes. In the h = 0 scattering 
plane, for example, the vertical resolution is coarse enough to integrate the ICM’s at nonzero h. We refer to such a 
spectrum as a “projected” scan and indicate which coordinate is integrated. Measurements in several projections 
then allows a complete determination of the components of the ICM wave vector, which also have been verified 
by data taken with tighter vertical resolution, as discussed in more detail below.
The high-resolution synchrotron x-ray powder diffraction patterns were collected on the BL01C2 beam line at 
the Taiwan National Synchrotron Radiation Research Center, employing an incident wavelength of 0.77495 Å as 
defined by a Si(111) double-crystal monochromator. The diffraction intensities were recorded by a Mar345 imag-
ing plate system, with a sample-to-detector distance of 300 mm. The sample temperature was controlled using a 
Figure 5.  Neutron-diffraction intensity maps observed in the (a) (hk0), (b) (0kl) and (c) (h0l) scattering 
planes, obtained at 3 K, using unpolarized neutrons. Four satellite magnetic reflections associated with each 
commensurate Bragg position are revealed in the (hk0) and (0kl) scattering planes; while two satellite magnetic 
reflections are revealed for each reflection in the (h0l) scattering plane. Second-order satellite magnetic 
reflections associated with the reflections at the (203), (400) and (401) Bragg positions are evident.


---
# Page 6

www.nature.com/scientificreports/
6
SCIeNtIfIC REPOrTs | 7: 6437 | DOI:10.1038/s41598-017-06651-9
He-gas closed-cycle refrigerator system, equipped with a high power heater. Throughout the paper, uncertainties 
where indicated represent one standard deviation.
Results and Discussion
Magnetic phases. 
For the C2/c crystalline symmetry of monoclinic Co3TeO6 the nuclear (203) Bragg peak 
is forbidden, making it an excellent place to investigate the magnetic order. In the (h, 0, l) scattering plane we 
see the development of two ICM satellite reflections at the (2 − qh, ±qk, 3 + ql) and (2 + qh, ±qk, 3 − ql) positions 
with qh = 0.365(1) and ql = 0.106(1), as shown in Fig. 4a for T = 22.5 K. We remark that the incommensurability 
occurs in all three components of the wave vector as we discuss in detail below. Scans of these peaks in the vertical 
direction were made with the monochromator in vertical focusing mode, and then there barely is any indica-
tion of a splitting, but the peaks could readily be resolved using a vertically flat monochromator. It appears that 
the intensity of the (203) − q reflection is 5.1 times higher than that of the (203) + q reflection. This noticeable 
Figure 6.  Polarized neutron diffraction measurements for the commensurate and incommensurate Bragg 
reflections. (a) Direct comparison of the spin-flip (SF, filled circles) and non-spin-flip (NSF, open triangles) 
scans at 3 K, covering two first-order and two second-order satellite reflections associated with the (203) CM 
magnetic Bragg reflection. Intensity differences between the SF and NSF channels for the five peaks are clearly 
revealed, showing that all five peaks are magnetic in origin. (b) Temperature dependence of the peak intensity 
of the second-order satellite (203) − 2(qh, 0, ql) reflection, revealing that these second-order peaks only develop 
significant intensity below ≈15 K (TM4). The solid curve is an order-parameter fit to the data to provide a simple 
guide-to-the-eye. The inset shows the (203) − 2(qh, 0, ql) reflection taken with four polarization channels.


---
# Page 7

www.nature.com/scientificreports/
7
SCIeNtIfIC REPOrTs | 7: 6437 | DOI:10.1038/s41598-017-06651-9
difference in intensity of the two satellites in this (Fig. 4a) scattering plane is likely due to the orientation factor 
in the magnetic cross section. Note that there is no magnetic intensity at the CM (203) position (or any other 
commensurate magnetic reflection) at this temperature, which peaks first appear below TM2 = 19.5 K. In the fer-
roelectric phase at 16.5 K the qh of the ICM satellite reflections shifts to a larger value (Fig. 4b), while further 
cooling into the ground state increases the magnetic intensities as usual, while both qh and ql shift back to smaller 
values (Fig. 4c). More interesting is the development of second-order ICM satellite reflections at the (2 − 2qh, 
±2qk, 3 + 2ql) and (2 + 2qh, ±2qk, 3 − 2ql) positions as clearly visible in the 3 K intensity map, which were also 
investigated with detailed vertical scans. Typically, in the case of a ICM spin-density wave second-order peaks 
reflect a charge-density-wave (magnetostructural coupling) accompanying the spin-density-wave, since if there’s 
no breaking of the AFM symmetry (no net magnetization) only higher-order reflections that are odd numbers 
are allowed. As we will see below, however, these second-order peaks are magnetic, which indicates a small net 
magnetization has developed below TM4, as indicated by Toledano, et al.16 and later by Singh, et al.19, similar to 
what has been found in ErNi2B2C30, for example. Apparently, the Co spins in Layer A and in Layer B order sep-
arately, reflecting a weak interlayer magnetic coupling for Co3TeO6. The two magnetic transitions found2, 9, 13, 17  
are the result of the ordering of the Co spins in the zigzag chains in Layer B into an ICM spin arrangement at 
TM1 = 26 K, and the separate ordering of the Co spins in the honeycomb web in Layer A into a CM spin structure 
at TM2 = 19.5 K. Clearly, the modulation vector q = (qh, qk, ql) of the satellite reflections is very sensitive to temper-
ature as previously discussed14.
The intensity maps at 3 K of the (hk0), (0kl) and (h0l) scattering planes are shown in Fig. 5. Four ICM satellite 
components associated with each Bragg peak are seen for the reflections in the (hk0) (Fig. 5a) and (0kl) (Fig. 5b) 
scattering planes. Interestingly, there are only two ICM components associated with each Bragg peak revealed in 
the (h0l) scattering plane with the modulation only in the +qh or in the +ql component (Fig. 5c). The modulation 
vector is determined to be q = (0.357, 0.103, 0.122) at 3 K. Four sets of second order ICM reflections associated 
with the (020), (110), (203) and (400) Bragg reflections are also observed (Fig. 5a and c). The appearance of four-q 
ICM reflections in the (hk0) and (0kl) scattering planes but two-q in the (h0l) scattering plane are the direct result 
of the existence of four modulation vectors that are associated with each CM Bragg reflection, driven by the 
C/2c crystalline symmetry. As illustrated in Fig. S3 in the Supplementary Information, the four ICM reflections 
at (+qh, 2 + qk, −ql), (+qh, 2 − qk, −ql), (−qh, 2 + qk, +ql) and (−qh, 2 − qk, +ql) (crosses) will be detected by the 
Figure 7.  Polarized neutron diffraction data for spin-flip and non-spin-flip intensities at 3 K in horizontal and 
vertical field configurations for: (a) the (600) Bragg reflection; (b) (201) Bragg reflection; (c) (401)− satellite 
reflection; and (d) (002)− satellite reflection. For the (600) peak only non-spin-flip scattering is observed (above 
the instrumental flipping ratio), independent of guide field direction, demonstrating that this peak is purely 
nuclear and has no magnetic component. Magnetic components are observed for the other three reflections.


---
# Page 8

www.nature.com/scientificreports/
8
SCIeNtIfIC REPOrTs | 7: 6437 | DOI:10.1038/s41598-017-06651-9
instrumental resolution at four positions (solid circles) upon scanning in the (hk0) scattering plane, but will be 
detected at only two positions when is scanning in the (h0l) scattering plane.
The neutron polarization analysis technique can be employed to unambiguously establish if these incommen-
surate peaks have a magnetic or structural origin31, 32. Nuclear coherent Bragg scattering never causes a reversal, 
or spin-flip, of the neutron spin direction upon scattering, while the magnetic cross-sections depend on the 
relative orientation of the neutron polarization P and the reciprocal lattice vector Q. In the configuration where 
P||Q, all the magnetic scattering is spin-flip. The arrangement of measuring both P||Q and P⊥Q then provides an 
unambiguous method of distinguishing magnetic from structural Bragg peaks.
The magnetic origin of the CM (203) Bragg reflection and the associated ICM satellite reflections at 3 K is con-
firmed by the polarized neutron measurements as shown in Fig. 6a, where intense spin-flip (SF) scattering from 
(203), (203) ± q and even from (203) ± 2q are revealed. The small peaks that appear in the non-spin-flip (NSF) 
channel are due to imperfect polarization of the incident beam, rather than from nuclear diffraction. Significant 
reduction of the intensity of the second order (203) − 2q ICM reflection appears above 9 K, which becomes barely 
visible above ≈13 K (Fig. 6b), while this series of first-order ICM reflections persist up to 26 K. We associate the 
development of these second-order peaks with the transition TM4 into the ground state spin configuration.
Figure 7a reveals that there is no magnetic component of the (600) Bragg reflection even at 3 K, which is 
consistent with the magnetic structure proposed17 based on powder diffraction results. The intensities appear in 
the SF channel reveal a 95% polarization for the incident beam. We remark that the change in the (600) Bragg 
intensity of this single crystal below 16 K reported in ref. 14 originates from the relief of extinction in this high 
quality crystal as discussed previously (shown in Fig. 10b of ref. 17). Other structural Bragg peaks, such as the 
(201) Bragg reflection (Fig. 7b), do develop magnetic contributions. In the scattering geometry with P perpen-
dicular to Q the magnetic scattering from ordered moments with components along P is entirely non-spin-flip. 
The large intensities revealed in the P⊥Q SF channel of the (203) − 2q (inset to Fig. 6b), (401) − q (Fig. 7c), 
and (002) − q (Fig. 7d) reflections demonstrate the departure of the ICM spin structure from collinearity in the 
crystallographic a-c plane. One important point that needs to be addressed is the report, based on early powder 
diffraction analysis9, of a commensurate (0, 0.5, 0.25)-type of reflection. The (0kl) intensity map shown in Fig. 5b 
indicates that there is no intensity associated with this type of reflection. Figure 8 shows a direct comparison of 
the incommensurate satellite peaks in Fig. 8b with scans in Fig. 8a that should show this (0, 0.5, 0.25)-type of 
reflection. The absence of any intensity is a direct demonstration that the (0, 0.5, 0.25) propagation vector is not 
in fact present in this system.
Figure 8.  (a) Scans along the [0, k, 0.25] (crosses) and [0, k, 0.75] (open circles) crystallographic directions 
at 3 K, compared with the first-order incommensurate magnetic peaks along [0, k, 0.11] at the (0, 1.905, 0.11) 
and (0, 2.095, 0.11) positions, on the same intensity scales for direct comparison. No magnetic intensities are 
detected at the (0, 0.5, 0.25) or (0, 0.5, 0.75) positions, demonstrating that such peaks are not associated with the 
Co3TeO6 magnetic structure.


---
# Page 9

www.nature.com/scientificreports/
9
SCIeNtIfIC REPOrTs | 7: 6437 | DOI:10.1038/s41598-017-06651-9
ICM order and splitting of the modulation vector. 
Both the intensities and wave vector of the ICM 
spin structure, which are known to be associated with the Co spins in the zigzag chains, vary strongly with tem-
perature, as readily revealed by examining the ICM peaks around the strongest (020) + q series. Below the initial 
ordering temperature of TM1 = 26 K we have four satellite reflections at (020) + qi, with q1,2 =  ± (qh, qk, -ql) and 
q3,4 = ± (qh, −qk, −ql) with qh = 0.356 and qk = 0.155 at 22.5 K (Fig. 9a). We also note diffuse intensity around and 
between the peaks at this temperature near TM1, which is inelastic (critical) scattering since these data close to the 
initial ordering temperature were taken using the PSD without an energy analyzer. In the ferroelectric phase at 
16.5 K the four peaks have collapsed into two, with qk = 0, while qh shifts to a larger value as shown in Fig. 9b. In 
the ground state (T = 3 K) the k component of the incommensurability is restored. Interestingly, we observe four 
second-order ICM reflections at (020) + 2qi (Fig. 9c), indicating that the ICM magnetic structure has distorted 
and is no longer described by a simple sinusoid.
A detailed examination of the ICM peaks with higher instrumental resolution indicates a remarkable new 
feature. Below 20 K the width of the reflection increases in qh when cooling below 20 K (Fig. 10c), suggesting that 
the single peak structure observed between 18.6 and 19.5 K actually contains two inseparable peaks. Upon further 
cooling the peak clearly splits into two as shown in Fig. 10a. At 18.6 K we have one peak located at qh = 0.310(1), 
and we see that the peak splits asymmetrically, with the reflection at smaller qh shifting ≈3.6 times more than that 
of the peak that is shifting to a larger qh value as shown in Fig. 10b. The two ICM reflections appear in the (hk0) 
scattering plane at qh1 = 0.344(1) and qh2 = 0.289(1) at 17.9 K, prior to moving away from this scattering plane at 
17.8 K.
All three components of the magnetic ICM modulation vector vary substantially with temperature, with qh 
ranging from 0.334 to 0.417, qk from 0 to 0.159 and ql from 0.122 to 0.178 as shown in detail in Fig. 11. The modu-
lation vector stabilizes below ≈10 K, which is about where the second-order satellites develop their full intensities. 
Interestingly, the two-qh structure begins to appear below TM2, which is the temperature at which antiferromag-
netic ordering of the Co spins in Layer A begins to develop17. The two-qh structure disappears below 18 K, which 
Figure 9.  Neutron-diffraction intensity maps in the (hk0) scattering plane near the (020) Bragg position 
observed at (a) 22.5 K, (b) 16.5 K and (c) 3 K. Four satellite magnetic reflections appear at 22.5 K, but the 
incommensurability along the h direction vanishes at 16.5 K, demonstrating the occurrence of a magnetic 
phase transition. The incommensurability along the k direction is re-established below TM4, demonstrating the 
occurrence of another magnetic phase transition. Second-order peaks are also observed in the ground state.


---
# Page 10

www.nature.com/scientificreports/
10
SCIeNtIfIC REPOrTs | 7: 6437 | DOI:10.1038/s41598-017-06651-9
is the temperature below which ferroelectricity develops. Note that all three components of the modulation vec-
tor remain essentially unaltered between 16 and 18 K during the development of ferroelectricity, and there is a 
discontinuous jump in qh1 at 18 K when links to the ICM spin structure of the Co spins in Layer B that develops 
below TM1 = 26 K. The qh2 branch, on the other hand, is separate from the qh’s observed at other temperatures, and 
its origin is not clear. One possibility is that the ICM order on the chains couples to the honeycomb Layer A, and 
the competing interactions result in a different, weaker ICM order in this layer as it begins to order spontaneously. 
Alternatively, it could represent a second type of modulation on Layer B. In any event, this modulation suddenly 
disappears at the ferroelectric transition, where the qk component suddenly locks in to zero, and the magnetic 
intensity in the commensurate Layer B order jumps in amplitude at this first order transition. Clearly the ferro-
electricity is connected to the magnetic order on both sublattices, but appears to be more strongly influenced by 
the Co spins in Layer A since this is the magnetic symmetry that allows the ferroelectric order, and is the one 
where the applied electric field noticeably enhances the intensity of the commensurate magnetic reflections (Figs 
8, 9 and 11 of ref. 17).
Electronic charge redistribution. 
Synchrotron x-ray diffraction measurements reveal the interesting 
result that the ferroelectric transition is accompanied by significant electronic charge redistributions. The most 
pronounced changes occur around the Te(2) ions on the 8 f sites and their neighboring O(4) ions in Layer A, while 
the Te(1) ions on the 4b sites in Layer A contribute much less, perhaps none, to this behavior. Here, we adopt the 
labeling used in Table II of ref. 17 for the ions in the unit cell, where we have presented detailed crystallographic 
refinements of neutron powder diffraction data. Table 1 contains a typical complete refinement of the x-ray data 
at 40 K for comparison. These changes in the charge distributions are better revealed in the difference electronic 
Figure 10.  (a) Thermal variations of the intensity maps of the (020)− satellite magnetic reflection, covering 
17.8 to 19 K. Splitting of the satellite reflection in the h direction is clearly seen on cooling below 18.2 K. (b) 
Diffraction peak profiles of the satellite (020)− reflection taken along the h direction at five representative 
temperatures, revealing the splitting of the reflection. (c) Temperature dependence of the full-width-at-half-
maximum (FWHM) of one of the satellite reflection around (020).


---
# Page 11

www.nature.com/scientificreports/
11
SCIeNtIfIC REPOrTs | 7: 6437 | DOI:10.1038/s41598-017-06651-9
charge density (ECD) plots, where the ECD distribution at 18 K is subtracted from that at 6 K. Such a difference 
ECD plot for the ions in Layer A is illustrated in Fig. 12a, where the contours for a difference ECD of +0.022 e/
Å3 are marked by light (turquoise) shading while those of −0.022 e/Å3 are marked in dark (red) shading. The 
atomic positions with negative values represent the locations where the electronic charges are less at 6 K, being 
redistributed to the positions with positive values. These ECD maps were obtained by employing the General 
Structure Analysis System (GSAS) program, starting with profile refinements of the high-resolution x-ray dif-
fraction patterns, followed by calculation of the inverse Fourier transforms of the structure factors to extract the 
electron density distribution. The observed and fitted x-ray diffraction patterns obtained at 6, 18, 21 and 30 K can 
be found in the Supplementary Information.
There are three crystallographically distinct Co ions and two Te ions in Layer A. The loss of a significant 
amount of electronic charge around the Te(2)-O(4) bonding through the ferroelectric transition at 18 K is clearly 
revealed. In addition to a large amount of electronic charge shift to the neighboring Co(2)-O(8) bond, an increase 
of the electronic charge in the Co(3)-O(7) bonding and a loss of electronic charge in the Co(3)-O(6) bonding 
are noticeably evident. The changes in the electronic charges are strongly directional, and favor several specific 
crystallographic directions, rather than being evenly distributed around the atoms. Note that the electric polari-
zation is also a result of strongly directional charge distribution. The observed charge redistribution along specific 
crystallographic directions could be an important source for the development of ferroelectricity. The Co ions 
in Layer A form two edge-sharing but crystallographically distinct honeycombs, one accommodating the Te(1) 
ion at the center [marked Te(1)-block], while the other accommodates the Te(2) ion [marked Te(2)-block], as 
illustrated in Fig. 12a. The two neighboring Co ions are interconnected through an O ion, forming a severely dis-
torted Co-O honeycomb web. The geometric distortion of the Te(2)-block is much more severe than that of the 
Te(1)-block, and the crystalline symmetry of the Te(2)-blocks is also considerably lower. Interestingly, the supply 
of electronic charge from the Te-O ions to their neighboring ions through the ferroelectric transition occurs only 
in the severely distorted Te(2)-block, not in the crystallographically more symmetrical Te(1)-block. In addition, 
the crystalline symmetry of the Te(1)-block gives rise to an exact cancellation for the ECD in this local block, 
but a net difference ECD appears in the Te(2)-block, resulting from the difference in the changes in the ECD for 
the Co(2)-O(7) and for the Co(5)-O(1) bonds through the transition. The net difference ECD in the Te(2)-block 
Figure 11.  Thermal variations of (a) qh (b) qk and (c) ql of the (020)− satellite reflection, revealing all three 
components of the modulation vector change with temperature. The modulation vector stabilizes below 10 K, 
where the second-order satellite intensities become fully developed. There are two sets of qh, marked qh1 and 
qh2, which appear between 18 and 19.5 K. The dashed vertical lines indicate the temperatures at which the 
transitions are observed in Co3TeO6.


---
# Page 12

www.nature.com/scientificreports/
12
SCIeNtIfIC REPOrTs | 7: 6437 | DOI:10.1038/s41598-017-06651-9
can only be cancelled with that in the neighboring Te(2)-block, which is a large distance away [a separation of 
6.604 Å between the two neighboring Te(2) ions]. Apparently, the Te(2)-blocks are connected more strongly to 
the development of ferroelectricity than the Te(1)-blocks. No such behavior was detected in Layer B. No noticea-
ble amount of charge transfer from the Te(2) ions was found on cooling through TM2 from 21 to 18 K (Fig. 13) or 
through TM1 from 30 to 21 K (Fig. 14). Note that the difference ECD forms an electric dipole on the ion. The sizes 
of the electric dipoles on the Co(2) and Co(3) ions are particularly significant, as illustrated in Fig. 12b, showing 
that the ferroelectricity is mainly contributed from the Co(2) and Co(3) ions. It appears that these electric dipoles 
configure into structure that is primarily antiferroelectic in nature.
Figure 12.  (a) Contour map of the electronic charge density in Layer A that develops upon cooling from 18 K to 
6 K, as obtained from the x-ray diffraction data. The regions marked by contours for a difference ECD of + 0.022 
e/Å3 are marked by light (turquoise) shading, while those of −0.022 e/Å3 are marked in dark (red) shading. (b) 
Arrows are used to indicate the electric dipoles that are associated with the difference electronic charge density 
on the ions, revealing an antiferroelectric-type of structure.
Figure 13.  Contour map of the electronic charge density in Layer A that develops upon cooling from 21 K 
to 18 K, as obtained from the x-ray diffraction data. The regions marked by contours for a difference ECD 
of + 0.022 e/Å3 are marked by light (turquoise) shading, while those of −0.022 e/Å3 are marked in dark (red) 
shading.


---
# Page 13

www.nature.com/scientificreports/
13
SCIeNtIfIC REPOrTs | 7: 6437 | DOI:10.1038/s41598-017-06651-9
Four separate layers (marked A, B, A′, B′) may be distinguished in a unit block of Co3TeO6, and the whole unit 
cell may be obtained by translating the unit block along the a-axis direction (Fig. 1). Layer A′ and Layer B′ can be 
reached by a translation operation of Layer A and Layer B, respectively, through (a/2 b/2 0). Redistribution of a 
considerable amount of electronic charge of the Te(1) ions through ferroelectric transition is also evident, as 
illustrated in Fig. 15a and b. This electron density contour map of the (0, 0.5, 0) crystallographic plane was 
obtained by slicing the electron density 0.025 Å below and above the plane. The electronic charge density along 
the [101] crystallographic direction can be obtained by cutting the density map along that direction. There is a 
significant increase of electronic charges between the two neighboring Te(1) ions along the [001] direction upon 
cooling through the ferroelectric transition (Fig. 15b and c), revealing a better atomic connection between Layer 
A and Layer B in the ferroelectric state. These results clearly show that the Te(2) ions supply electronic charges to 
their neighboring ions while the electrons of the Te(1) ions become more widely distributed upon cooling 
through the ferroelectric transition. Apparently, both the Te(1) and Te(2) ions participate in the ferroelectric 
transition albeit in a different fashion.
Co3TeO6
Monoclinic C2/c, (No. 15), T = 40 K,
a = 14.7799(3) Å, b = 8.8303(2) Å, c = 10.3311(2) Å, β = 94.903(1)°
Atom
x
y
Z
M
Biso(Å2)
Occupancy
Te1
0
0.5
0.5
4b
2.82(6)
0.99(1)
Te2
0.660(1)
−0.498(1)
0.299(1)
8f
3.35(5)
0.99(1)
Co1
0.5
−0.186(1)
0.25
4e
0.83(9)
1.01(1)
Co2
0.857(1)
−0.354(1)
0.232(1)
8f
0.52(9)
1.01(1)
Co3
0.522(1)
−0.652(1)
0.040(1)
8f
0.38(8)
1.00(1)
Co4
0.666(1)
−0.296(1)
0.056(1)
8f
0.70(9)
1.01(1)
Co5
0.797(1)
−0.361(1)
0.571(1)
8f
0.54(8)
0.99(2)
O1
0.926(1)
−0.323(2)
0.567(1)
8f
4.2(5)
0.99(2)
O2
0.591(1)
−0.333(2)
0.203(1)
8f
3.6(5)
0.99(2)
O3
0.593(1)
−0.648(1)
0.188(1)
8f
1.8(4)
1.02(3)
O4
0.752(1)
−0.521(2)
0.660(1)
8f
4.8(5)
0.98(3)
O5
0.933(1)
−0.504(2)
0.333(1)
8f
3.1(4)
1.00(1)
O6
0.582(1)
−0.522(1)
0.447(1)
8f
1.1(3)
1.01(2)
O7
0.918(1)
−0.662(1)
0.563(1)
8f
0.84(9)
0.97(2)
O8
0.736(1)
−0.329(2)
0.398(1)
8f
1.5(4)
1.00(3)
O9
0.732(1)
−0.664(2)
0.397(1)
8f
3.3(4)
0.99(2)
χ2 = 1.255, Rp = 3.51%, Rwp = 5.15%
Table 1.  Refinement of the x-ray data at 40 K. The refinements are in excellent agreement with the refined 
neutron diffraction data17.
Figure 14.  Contour map of the electronic charge density in Layer A that develops upon cooling from 30 K 
to 21 K, as obtained from the x-ray diffraction data. The regions marked by contours for a difference ECD 
of + 0.022 e/Å3 are marked by light (turquoise) shading, while those of −0.022 e/Å3 are marked in dark (red) 
shading.


---
# Page 14

www.nature.com/scientificreports/
14
SCIeNtIfIC REPOrTs | 7: 6437 | DOI:10.1038/s41598-017-06651-9
Conclusions
The present results go a long way in understanding the complicated nature of the magnetic orderings, coupling 
to the charge densities and ferroelectric order, and resolving some of the discrepancies in earlier work. Co3TeO6 
initially develops magnetic order at TM1 = 26 K, which is fully incommensurate in nature in h, k, and l. In par-
ticular, there is no commensurate magnetic component to the order in the temperature range between TM1 and 
TM2. Moreover, we do not observe any other type of transition above TM1, in contrast to reports in powders of a 
transition at 34 K (see the discussion in ref. 19), nor do we observe any indication of ferromagnetic correlations 
in the paramagnetic state (T > TM1) in our neutron scattering data, in contrast to Singh, et al.19. Commensurate 
magnetic order develops separately at TM2 = 19.5 K in the Γ4 irreducible representation. With regard to the sym-
metries of the magnetic structures, we note that we have previously provided the irreducible representations for 
these commensurate structures17, while for the incommensurate order there is no subgroup symmetry analysis to 
discuss since they are incommensurate in all three components, and so group theory is not particularly enlight-
ening. Between 19.5 K and 18 K the h component of the incommsurability splits into two peaks, one of which 
abruptly disappears below TM3 = 18 K where (weak) ferroelectricity develops, an additional commensurate mag-
netic structure consistent with Γ3 irreducible representation appears, and the k component of the incommensura-
bility vanishes. Below TM4 = 15 K the k component of the incommensurability is re-established, and second-order 
magnetic satellite peaks develop indicating a small net magnetization has developed as indicated by Toledano, 
et al.16 and suggested by Singh, et al.19. Finally, we find no commensurate intensities from the (01/21/4)-type of 
reflections that were proposed in ref. 9 on the basis of powder diffraction data and were the basis of a symmetry 
analysis in ref. 16.
Figure 15.  Portions of the difference electronic charge density maps in the y = 0.5 crystallographic plane, where 
(a) the electronic charge densities increase and (b) the electronic charge decrease, on cooling from 18 to 6 K. 
The color bars are in units of e/Å3. (c) Changes of the electronic charge density along the [001] crystallographic 
direction in the (0 0.5 0.835) plane upon cooling from 18 to 6 K.


---
# Page 15

www.nature.com/scientificreports/
15
SCIeNtIfIC REPOrTs | 7: 6437 | DOI:10.1038/s41598-017-06651-9
Synchrotron powder x-ray diffraction measurements show that Te ions participate in the development of 
ferroelectricity. There are two crystallographically distinct Te ions in monoclinic Co3TeO6. The Te ions located 
at the center positions of the severely distorted Co honeycomb contribute significantly to the development of 
ferroelectricity by supplying a significant electronic charge to their neighboring Co and O ions, but the changes 
are unevenly distributed throughout the surrounding honeycomb structure. No such behavior is found in the Te 
ions located at the center positions of the other Co honeycombs with a higher degree of crystalline symmetry, 
although the electronic charges of these Te ions become more widely distributed toward the neighboring layers 
through ferroelectric transition. We demonstrate that the development of ferroelectricity in Co3TeO6 is closely 
linked to the increase of electronic charges in specific regions, where local crystallographic distortions and/or 
asymmetry appear. This spontaneous polarization appears to be associated with a charge redistribution that is 
primarily antiferroelectric in nature. This antiferroelectric behavior is consistent with the unusual anomalies in 
the lattice parameters at the ferroelectric transition, where there is sizable negative thermal expansion in all three 
lattice parameters17. Anomalies have been observed in other ferroelectrics such as HoMn2O5, DyMn2O5, and 
TbMn2O5
23, TbMnO3
33, GdMnO3
34, Ni3V2O8
35, and even PbTiO3
36, but with mixed behavior of expansion and 
contraction.
References
	 1.	 An electric polarization of 5 μC/m2 for Co3TeO6 at 5 K was found in ref. 2 that compares with 2.6 × 104 μC/m2 for BaTiO3 at 296 K, 
800 μC/m2 for TbMnO3 at 10 K, 1.2 × 103 μC/m2 for Rb2ZnCl4 at 153 K, and 560 μC/m2 for K2SeO4 at 77 K as stated in ref. 3.
	 2.	 Hudl, M. et al. Complex magnetism and magnetic-field-driven electrical polarization of Co3TeO6. Phys. Rev. B 84, 180404(R) (2011).
	 3.	 Kimura, T. et al. Magnetic control of ferroelectric polarization. Nature (London) 426, 55–58 (2003).
	 4.	 Oh, Y. S. et al. Non-hysteretic colossal magnetoelectricity in a collinear antiferromagnet. Nat. Commun. 5, 3201 (2014).
	 5.	 Kim, J. W. et al. Successive Magnetic-Field-Induced Transitions and Colossal Magnetoelectric Effect in Ni3TeO6. Phys. Rev. Lett. 115, 
137201 (2015).
	 6.	 Zhu, X., Wang, Z., Su, X. & Vilarinho, P. M. New Cu3TeO6 Ceramics: Phase Formation and Dielectric Properties. ACS Appl. Mater. 
Interface 6, 11326–11332 (2014).
	 7.	 Živković, I., Prša, K., Zaharko, O. & Berger, H. Ni3TeO6—a collinear antiferromagnet with ferromagnetic honeycomb planes. J. 
Phys.: Condens. Matter 22, 056002 (2010).
	 8.	 Herak, M. et al. Novel spin lattice in Cu3TeO6: an antiferromagnetic order and domain dynamics. J. Phys.: Condens. Matter 17, 
7667–7679 (2010).
	 9.	 Ivanov, S. A. et al. Temperature-dependent multi-k magnetic structure in multiferroic Co3TeO6. Mater. Res. Bull. 47, 63–72 (2012).
	10.	 Rabe, K. M., Ahn, C. H. & Triscone, J.-M. Physics of ferroelectrics: a modern perspective, p.17 (Springer-Verlag, Berlin, 2007).
	11.	 Ivanov, S. A. et al. New type of incommensurate magnetic ordering in Mn3TeO6. Mater. Res. Bull. 46, 1870–1877 (2011).
	12.	 Becker, R., Johnssona, M. & Berger, H. A new synthetic cobalt tellurate: Co3TeO6. Acta Cryst. C62, i67–i69 (2006).
	13.	 Her, J. L. et al. Magnetic phase diagram of the antiferromagnetic cobalt tellurate Co3TeO6. Phys. Rev. B 84, 235123 (2011).
	14.	 Li, W.-H. et al. Interplay between the magnetic and electric degrees of freedom in multiferroic Co3TeO6. Phys. Rev. B 85, 094431 
(2012).
	15.	 Harris, A. B. Symmetry analysis of multiferroic Co3TeO6. Phys. Rev. B 85, 100403(R) (2011).
	16.	 Tolédano, P. et al. First-order multi-k phase transitions and magnetoelectric effects in multiferroic Co3TeO6. Phys. Rev. B 85, 214439 
(2012).
	17.	 Wang, C.-W. et al. Complex magnetic couplings in Co3TeO6. Phys. Rev. B 88, 184427 (2013).
	18.	 Singh, H., Ghosh, H., Rao, T. V. C., Sinha, A. K. & Rajput, P. Observation of high-spin mixed oxidation state of cobalt in ceramic 
Co3TeO6. J. Appl. Phys. 116, 214106 (2014).
	19.	 Singh, H. et al. Short range ferromagnetic, magneto-electric, and magneto-dielectric effect in ceramic Co3TeO6. J. Appl. Phys. 119, 
044104 (2016).
	20.	 Lawes, G. et al. Magnetically Driven Ferroelectric Order in Ni3V2O8. Phys. Rev. Lett. 95, 087205 (2005).
	21.	 Kenzelmann, M. et al. Magnetic Inversion Symmetry Breaking and Ferroelectricity in TbMnO3. Phys. Rev. Lett. 95, 087206 (2005).
	22.	 Blake, G. R. et al. Spin structure and magnetic frustration in multiferroic RMn2O5 (R = Tb,Ho,Dy). Phys. Rev. B 71, 214402 (2005).
	23.	 Cruz, C. R. et al. Structural anomalies at the magnetic and ferroelectric transitions in RMn2O5 (R = Tb,Dy,Ho). Phys. Rev. B 73, 
100406(R) (2006).
	24.	 Muñoz, A. et al. Complex Magnetism and Magnetic Structures of the Metastable HoMnO3 Perovskite. Inorg. Chem. 40, 1020–1028 
(2001).
	25.	 Khomskii, D. Classifying multiferroics: Mechanisms and effects. Physics 2, 20 (2009).
	26.	 Cheong, S.-W. & Mostovoy, M. Multiferroics: a magnetic twist for ferroelectricity. Nature Mater. 6, 13–20 (2007).
	27.	 Ratcliff, W. D. II, Lynn, J. W., Kiryukhin, V., Jain, P. & Fitzsimmons, M. R. Magnetic structures and dynamics of multiferroic systems 
obtained with neutron scattering. npj Quantum Materials 1, 16003 (2016).
	28.	 Lynn, J. W. et al. Double-Focusing Thermal Triple-Axis Spectrometer at the NCNR. J. Research NIST 117, 61–79 (2012).
	29.	 Chen, W. C. et al. 3He spin filters for a thermal neutron triple axis spectrometer. Physica B 397, 168–171 (2007).
	30.	 Choi, S.-M. et al. Direct Observation of Spontaneous Weak Ferromagnetism in the Superconductor ErNi2B2C. Phys. Rev. Lett. 87, 
107001 (2001).
	31.	 Moon, R. M., Riste, T. & Koehler, W. C. Polarization Analysis of Thermal-Neutron Scattering. Phys. Rev. 181, 920 (1969).
	32.	 Williams, W. G. Polarized Neutrons (Oxford University Press, Oxford1988).
	33.	 Meier, D., Aliouane, N., Argyriou, D. N., Mydosh, J. A. & Lorenz, T. New features in the phase diagram of TbMnO3. New J. Phys. 9, 
100 (2007).
	34.	 Baier, J. et al. Hysteresis effects in the phase diagram of multiferroic GdMnO3. Phys. Rev. B 73, 100402(R) (2006).
	35.	 Chaudhury, R. P. et al. Pressure-temperature phase diagram of multiferroic Ni3V2O8. Phys. Rev. B 75, 012407 (2007).
	36.	 Shirane, G. & Hoshino, S. On the Phase Transition in Lead Titanate. J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. 6, 265–270 (1951).
Acknowledgements
The work in Taiwan was supported by the Ministry of Science and Technology of Taiwan under Grant No. 
MOST 104-2112-M-008-007-MY3. Identification of commercial equipment in the text is not intended to imply 
recommendation or endorsement by the National Institute of Standards and Technology.


---
# Page 16

www.nature.com/scientificreports/
16
SCIeNtIfIC REPOrTs | 7: 6437 | DOI:10.1038/s41598-017-06651-9
Author Contributions
W.H.L., C.H.L., J.W.L., B.H. and H.D.Y. designed the study; H.B. synthesized the sample; C.H.L., C.W.W., W.H.L., 
J.W.L., Y.Z., K.R. performed the measurements; all of the authors discussed the results; and C.H.L., W.H.L., J.W.L. 
and B.H. wrote the manuscript.
Additional Information
Supplementary information accompanies this paper at doi:10.1038/s41598-017-06651-9
Competing Interests: The authors declare that they have no competing interests.
Publisher's note: Springer Nature remains neutral with regard to jurisdictional claims in published maps and 
institutional affiliations.
Open Access This article is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International 
License, which permits use, sharing, adaptation, distribution and reproduction in any medium or 
format, as long as you give appropriate credit to the original author(s) and the source, provide a link to the Cre-
ative Commons license, and indicate if changes were made. The images or other third party material in this 
article are included in the article’s Creative Commons license, unless indicated otherwise in a credit line to the 
material. If material is not included in the article’s Creative Commons license and your intended use is not per-
mitted by statutory regulation or exceeds the permitted use, you will need to obtain permission directly from the 
copyright holder. To view a copy of this license, visit http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/.
 
© The Author(s) 2017


---
