# Page 1

1
Scientific Reports | 5:17771 | DOI: 10.1038/srep17771
www.nature.com/scientificreports
One Dimensional(1D)-to-2D 
Crossover of Spin Correlations in 
the 3D Magnet ZnMn2O4
S. M. Disseler1, Y. Chen1,2, S. Yeo3,5, G. Gasparovic1,2, P. M. B. Piccoli4, A. J. Schultz4, 
Y. Qiu1,2, Q. Huang1, S.-W. Cheong3 & W. Ratcliff II1
We report on the intriguing evolution of the dynamical spin correlations of the frustrated spinel 
ZnMn2O4. Inelastic neutron scattering and magnetization studies reveal that the dynamical 
correlations at high temperatures are 1D. At lower temperature, these dynamical correlations 
become 2D. Surprisingly, the dynamical correlations condense into a quasi 2D Ising-like ordered 
state, making this a rare observation of two dimensional order on the spinel lattice. Remarkably, 3D 
ordering is not observed down to temperatures as low as 300 mK. This unprecedented dimensional 
crossover stems from frustrated exchange couplings due to the huge Jahn-Teller distortions around 
Mn3+ ions on the spinel lattice.
Geometrically frustrated magnets, in which the magnetic interactions are frustrated by the geometry of 
the lattice, have been the subject of intense experimental and theoretical study1,2. Geometrical frustration 
has resulted in a number of intriguing ground states ranging from spin ice3 to spin liquids4,5. In the spi-
nel structure, magnetic ions form corner-shared tetrahedra resulting in a spin liquid state in ZnCr2O4, 
for example4,5, while others order and may become multiferroic6. Through the use of ionic ordering, 
it has been possible to create quasi one dimensional(D) chains in the spinel lattice in systems such as 
LiCuVO4 7, however, this is achieved only through severe modification of the lattice. In contrast, in the 
ZnV2O4 system orbital ordering gives rise to a system of tangled 1D chains8. In this work, we demon-
strate that geometrical frustration stabilizes low dimensional magnetism in the spinel, ZnMn2O4. In this 
particular example, the system develops short range 1D dynamical correlations at room temperature. As 
the temperature is lowered, these correlations extend to two dimensions and finally the system achieves 
2D magnetic order at 60 K. 2D ordering is extremely rare on the spinel lattice and only has been pro-
posed in powder studies of isostructural Li2Mn2O4 9 where the ordering pattern reported was completely 
different. Long range 3D order is not established even by 300 mK in ZnMn2O4.
Later, we will argue that the out of plane interactions in this lattice remain frustrated, resulting in two 
dimensional ordering in the lattice. The interactions within a given layer consists of weakly coupled spin 
chains with a relatively strong intrachain coupling resulting from direct exchange. This can be mapped 
onto the rectangular Ising model, considered by Onsager10. Onsager and others10–12 found that when the 
interchain coupling is on the order of 100 times weaker than that of the intrachain coupling, the essential 
physics is that of 1D chains. However, the presence of weak interchain coupling will allow the system 
to order magnetically. Dimensional crossovers from 2D-3D and 1D-3D have been studied in the past. 
However there is a paucity of studies of 1D-2D crossovers11. Here, we present an experimental realization 
of a system evincing this crossover.
1NIST Center for Neutron Research, National Institute of Standards and Technology, Gaithersburg, Maryland 
20899. 2Department of Materials Science and Engineering, University of Maryland, College Park, Maryland 
20742. 3Rutgers Center for Emergent Materials and Department of Physics and Astronomy, Rutgers University, 
Piscataway, New Jersey 08854. 4Intense Pulsed Neutron Source, Argonne National Laboratory, Argonne, Illinois 
60439. 5Korea Atomic Energy Research Institute, Daejeon, Korea. Correspondence and requests for materials 
should be addressed to W.R. (email: william.ratcliff@nist.gov)
received: 18 June 2015
accepted: 04 November 2015
Published: 08 December 2015
OPEN


---
# Page 2

www.nature.com/scientificreports/
2
Scientific Reports | 5:17771 | DOI: 10.1038/srep17771
At high temperatures, ZnMn2O4 crystallizes as a cubic spinel. However, this state is unstable and at 
1323 K, a Jahn-Teller phase transition takes the system from the Fd3m cubic phase into a tetragonal I41/
amd phase with c
a ratio of 1.6213,14. The Jahn Teller effect could have lowered the electronic energy of the 
system through the lone e g electron either occupying the dz
2 orbital, or the 
−
dx
y
2
2 orbital, which would 
result in either elongated or contracted oxygen octahedra. Theory and experiment reveal that it is the dz
2 
which is lower in energy13,14. Furthermore, theory suggests that these dz
2 orbitals are ferro-ordered15. This 
orbital ordering will then favor 1D correlations along the chains through direct exchange. Thus, the 
orbital ordrering partially lifts the frustration of this lattice and allows us a rare opportunity to examine 
the ground state of uniaxial spins placed on a spinel lattice with anisotropic exchange interactions.
Results
Magnetization and Specific Heat. 
We start our exploration of this system with measurements of 
the specific heat and magnetization of polycrystalline samples, shown in Fig. 1. The magnetization shows 
a broad maxima at high temperature, characteristic of systems with low dimensional ordering or corre-
lations11,12. This behavior is well described by the functional form of one one-dimensional chains16, with 
the addition of a small Curie-term at low-temperatures. The magnetic susceptibility χ =
/
M H above 5 K 
is fit to this phenomenological function in the form of Eq. 1 using a Bayesian fitting routine17, where J 
is the average exchange interaction along the chains and ρ D
1  is the effective volume fraction of the sample 
exhibiting 1D-like susceptibility.
χ
µ
ρ
ρ
( ) =
( +
) 


(
−
)
(
+
) + (
−
)



( )
T
N g
S S
k T
u
u
1
3
4
1
1
1
1
A
B
B
D
D
2
2
1
1
where, 
(
)
=
−
u
coth
k T
J
J
k T
2
2
B
B .
The result of this fit is shown as the solid (red) line in Fig.  1a with 
=
. ±
J
16 8  0.3 meV and 
ρ
=
.
±
.
0 98
0 01
D
1
. Here 
=
S
2 was fixed to represent the high-spin configuration of Mn3+. The small 
effective volume of the Curie-term indicates that the origin is either a minor impurity phase or result of 
a powder-averaged single-ion anisotropy that is not included this 1D model. Thus, despite the 3D nature 
of the crystalline lattice, we find that the primary magnetic correlations are low dimensional over a large 
range of temperatures.
The specific heat shown in Fig. 1b, also exhibits a broad maxima above 100 K, in addition to a small 
peak at T ≈  60 K, corresponding to the minimum of the magnetic susceptibility. The peak is indicative 
of a phase transition in spatial dimensions greater than one12,18, suggesting a more complex ground state 
than simple chains. Due to the high temperature of the transition, it is generally ill advised to attempt 
to use models to obtain the magnetic contribution to the specific heat. Also, due to the Jahn-Teller 
Figure 1.  (a) Specific heat measurements on a powder of ZnMn2O4 indicating a transition at ≈ 60 K.  
(b) Susceptibility measurements showing low dimensional physics, (1 emu =  10−3 A/m). Solid (red) line is fit 
to classical model for a 1-D spin chain as described by Eq. 1.


---
# Page 3

www.nature.com/scientificreports/
3
Scientific Reports | 5:17771 | DOI: 10.1038/srep17771
transition, it is not possible to use an isostructural analogue to subtract the phonon contribution to 
the specific heat. Thus, this data can only be used to show consistency with the transition temperature 
determined by neutron scattering.
Neutron Diffraction. 
We turn now to neutron diffraction to directly study the onset of magnetic 
order and subsequent correlations. Powder diffraction measurements shown in Fig. 2a show asymmetric 
Warren lineshapes for magnetic peaks19,20 with a propagation vector 
≈
k
 (0.5, 1, 0), indicative of 2D 
ordering with weak correlations along the c-axis. This is observed below the ordering temperature of 
=
T N  64 K, down to 300 mK. The asymmetric lineshapes of the magnetic peak at 
≈
Q
 1.24 Å−1 is in stark 
contrast to the sharp, symmetric nuclear peak at 
≈
Q
 1.29 Å−1 highlighted in the inset of Fig. 2a. Reitveld 
refinement of high-resolution neutron diffraction patterns above T N do not show any evidence for struc-
tural disorder or impurity phases, nor is there evidence for site-mixing of Zn and Mn ions beyond the 
2% statistical error of the refinement. Thus, the disorder-free system clearly demonstrates that the mag-
netic structure remains 2D-like even though the crystalline structure is fully three-dimensional.
The effective correlation length within the 2D layers is determined by fitting the 300 mK data with a 
series of Warren lineshape magnetic peaks with a uniform correlation length. Gaussian peaks represent-
ing the nuclear peaks were also fit simultaneously. The magnetic structure factors were calculated from 
the magnetic structure shown in Fig. 3, that was later verified using single crystal diffraction. From this 
fit, shown as the solid line in Fig. 2a, we find that the in-plane magnetic correlation length is 200 ±  20 Å. 
A similar value for the correlation length was found at 40 K indicating that the correlation length is 
largely temperature independent below T N.
Single crystal measurements performed on SCD21 show rods of scattering parallel to the c-axis, with 
ordering wave-vector k =  (0.526, 1, 0) demonstrating 2D order similar to the powder material. We first 
solve this magnetic structure in long wavelength approximation k ≈  (0.5, 1, 0), noting that the difference 
corresponds to oscillations of the spins with very long periodicity approaching the correlation lengths 
derived from powder diffraction measurements. This propagation vector and rod-like scattering reveals 
that the individual layers shown in Fig. 3b order independently of each other. As the strongest coupling 
is through the direct exchange, we assume that the coupling is antiferromagnetic along the chains in each 
layer. Under this assumption we fit 6 magnetic reflections shown in Fig. 2b with the spin, S, as the only 
refineable parameter. We have restricted ourselves to a single quadrant to avoid possible systematic 
errors. We find S = 2.10 ±  0.04, which is consistent with that expected for the fully orbitally quenched 
moment. The χ2 for this fit is 1.4 demonstrating excellent agreement between the data and this 
long-wavelength model. Fitting the data instead with the fully incommensurate model does not improve 
the quality of fit, and S is unchanged within error. Therefore, as the two models cannot be distinguished 
from one another, we will discuss the remainder of the results in the long-wavelength approximation of 
a commensurate magnetic structure.
Figure 2.  (a) Refinement of the powder at 300 mK taken on the BT1 spectrometer, the solid (red) line is 
the fit as described in the text. (inset) Close up of the low angle magnetic and nuclear peak. Dashed (blue) 
lines are fits of the individual asymmetric magnetic and gaussian nuclear peak, the solid line is the complete 
fit including background. (b) Refinement of the magnetic structure from single crystal neutron diffraction. 
Squares represent measurements, and circles represent calculated values for the model shown in Fig. 3. Error 
bars in this paper reflect counting statistics.


---
# Page 4

www.nature.com/scientificreports/
4
Scientific Reports | 5:17771 | DOI: 10.1038/srep17771
In Fig. 3a, we show the spinel lattice along with a schematic of the magnetic structure in this com-
mensurate approximation. In this image one can easily distinguish the magnetically frustrated bonds 
between layers leading to the quasi-2D structure observed low temperature. The magnetic lattice can 
be viewed as consisting of chains of spins, alternating between the (1 0 0) and (0 1 0) directions as one 
moves along the c-axis, as demonstrated in Fig. 3b.
The temperature dependent integrated intensity of the (0.526, 1, 0) magnetic reflection is shown in 
Fig. 4d. A fit using a mean field order parameter shown as the solid line gives an ordering temperature 
T N =  64.5 ±  0.2 K in agreement with the peak observed in specific heat. The small intensity above the 
transition stems from critical scattering resulting from correlated fluctuations in the paramagnetic state. 
The commensurability of the magnetic structure determined by the location of the magnetic peak along 
H, shown in the inset of Fig. 4d, is observed to monotonically increase with decreasing temperatures 
below T N. This change in commensurability can be described as an increase in the periodicity for the 
small spin amplitude modulations between chains, and likely results from competing interactions beyond 
the nearest neighbor. Although this presents an interesting perturbation to the ordered state, this incom-
mensurability is not necessary in understanding the fundamental dynamics and emergent low dimen-
sionality, as we will show.
In Fig. 4, we examine the correlation lengths of the single crystal sample in the magnetically ordered 
phase. Measurements along the H and K directions were performed at 10 K, while measurements along L 
were measured at 4.5 K. For the rod at (0.5 1 L), scans along H correspond to interchain correlations and 
scans along K correspond to intrachain correlations. Fig. 4a,b show fits to a 2D lorentzian convolved with 
the instrumental resolution denoted by the horizontal bar in the respective figure. These fits give an inter-
chain correlation length of 47.6 ±  3.4  and an intrachain correlation length of 398.2 ±  163.4 Å. Fig. 4c shows 
the weak correlations along the c-axis. For alignment purposes we measured the rod in the (H 2H L) 
Figure 3.  (a) Cartoon of the crystallographic and magnetic structure. Bonds highlighting interplane 
frustration bewtwen Mn-O layers. (b) Schematic of the magnetic structure of ZnMn2O4 in the a-b plane, 
with emphasis on the Mn and O atoms. (+ ) signs indicate spins out of the a-b plane and (− ) signs 
represent spins into plane.


---
# Page 5

www.nature.com/scientificreports/
5
Scientific Reports | 5:17771 | DOI: 10.1038/srep17771
zone, however, the rod is actually at (0.526 1 0), thus as we scan along L, the fall will be steeper than the 
magnetic form factor because our scan will increasingly deviate from the true direction of the rod. Thus, 
instead of fitting to a sum of lattice lorentzians, we simply sum a series of lorenzians centered at integer 
L positions. This results in an interplane correlation length of 3.88 ±  0.04 Å, or approximately the dis-
tance between Mn-containing planes. This demonstrates that correlations are effectively 2D within the 
−
a
b plane in agreement with that expected from our model of the magnetic structure.
Inelastic Neutron Scattering. 
Inelastic neutron scattering directly probes of the spin-dynamics and 
excitations in the magnetically ordered state, as well as the low-dimensional spin-spin correlations above 
T N. In Fig. 5, we show DCS measurements performed on powders to provide an overview of excitations 
in this system. Well below T N (Fig. 5a,b) the spin-excitations are completely gapped, with an energy gap 
Δ  ∼  6 meV at =
Q  1.2 Å−1, corresponding to the (0.526,1,0) magnetic reflection. This spin-gap is indica-
tive of the single-ion anisotropy expected in the Jahn-Teller distorted structure. The well-defined magnon 
band extends beyond the observable energy range here, demonstrating large exchange interactions exist 
between spins as proposed by our fits of the magnetic susceptibility. At higher temperatures the gap 
becomes less well defined (Fig.  5c) before becoming a continuum of scattering in the paramagnetic 
region above T N. This narrow band of scattering remains centered above =
Q  1.2 Å−1 magnetic peak, and 
weaken with increasing temperature (4d to 4f). Even at 250 K–several times T N–significant scattering 
Figure 4.  (a) Correlations measured between chains measured at 10 K. (b) Correlations measured along 
chains measured at 10 K. (c) Correlations measured along a rod of scattering at (0.526 1 L) at 4.5 K. Solid 
(red) lines are fits as described in the text. (d) Temperature dependent integrated intensity of the (∼ 0.526, 
1, 0) magnetic reflection. It is fit to a mean field order parameter. (Inset) The center position of the (H 1 0) 
reflection as a function of temperature.


---
# Page 6

www.nature.com/scientificreports/
6
Scientific Reports | 5:17771 | DOI: 10.1038/srep17771
remains at high energies above this magnetic wavevector, making evident strong correlations between 
spins for finite times, i.e. short-range order.
Inelastic neutron scattering measurements of the small single crystal are shown in Fig. 6. In Fig. 6a,b, 
we showcase measurements made at 250 K of the intrachain and interchain coupling respectively. Due to 
spurious scattering at low energies, we measure the dynamic correlations at 3 meV and find a short cor-
relation length of 1.8 ±  0.01 Å along the chains corresponding to the correlations between nearest neigh-
bors only. No evidence of correlations between chains was found, as the scattering intensity is independent 
of H as shown in 6b. In Fig. 6c,d we look at the dynamic correlations at 150 K, measured at 8 meV. Here, 
the data is fit to the product of two 1D lorentzians convolved with the resolution function. We find a 
correlation length of 3.9 ±  1.5 Å along the chains and a correlation length of 2.8 ±  0.7 Å between the 
chains. This implies the formation of 2D correlations are developing above T N, however, they are still 
very short range and confined to the nearest neighbors within a given plane. This is in sharp contrast 
with the extended correlations that develop below T N as demonstrated in Fig. 4.
To understand the excitations in the ordered phase, we consider the rectangular (also known as 
“quadratic”) Ising Hamiltonian12:
∑
∑
∑
=
⋅
+
⋅
−
( )
,
,





H
J
S
S
J
S
S
D
S
2
i j
interchain i
j
i j
intrachain i
j
i
i
2
Figure 5.  Overview of excitations in the system at various temperatures, measured in powders on DCS. The 
dashed line at 
=
.
−
Q
1 2 Å
1 represents the location of the first magnetic peak also investigated in Fig. 6.


---
# Page 7

www.nature.com/scientificreports/
7
Scientific Reports | 5:17771 | DOI: 10.1038/srep17771
where Jinterchain and Jintrachain are interactions between and along chains respectively. D is a single-ion 
anistropy energy which is expected based on the appearance of a large spin-gap in both powder (Fig. 5) 
and single crystal (Fig. 6) samples. No interplane coupling between spins is considered in this model.
The spin wave dispersion was calculated from Eq. 2 using standard linear spin-wave theory in order 
to determine the exchange interactions from experiment. In Fig. 6e,f, we show the measured spin-wave 
dispersion along the reduced reciprocal lattice vectors qx and qy near the (0.526, 1, 0) magnetic reflection. 
The magnitude of the spin-gap observed at the magnetic zone center is consistent with that observed in 
the powder-averaged data in Fig. 5a. Fitting these dispersive excitations with the calculated spin-wave 
dispersion, shown as the solid line in the figures, we find Jintrachain =  15.6 ±  1 meV, Jintrachain =  0.31 ±  0.1 meV, 
0
0.5
1
1.5
500
550
600
650
700
750
800
Int. (arb. units)
K (r.l.u.)
250 K
(a)
0
0.5
1
1.5
200
250
300
350
400
Int. (arb. units)
H (r.l.u.)
250 K
(b)
0.5
1
1.5
200
220
240
260
280
300
320
Int. (arb. units)
K (r.l.u.)
150 K
(c)
0
0.5
1
1.5
240
260
280
300
320
340
360
Int. (arb. units)
H (r.l.u.)
150 K
(d)
0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
0
5
10
15
20
qy (r.l.u.)
E (meV)
20 K
(e)
−0.5
−0.3
−0.1
0.1
0.3
0.5
0
2
4
6
8
10
12
20 K
qx (r.l.u.)
E (meV)
(f)
Figure 6.  (a) Correlations along the chains measured at 250 K. (b) Correlations between chains measured 
at 250 K. (c) Correlations along the chains measured at 150 K. (d) Correlations between chains measured 
at 150 K. (e) Spin wave measurements along the chains measured at 20 K. (f) Spin wave measurements 
between the chains measured at 20 K. All fits described in the text. Horizontal lines indicate the instrument 
resolution.


---
# Page 8

www.nature.com/scientificreports/
8
Scientific Reports | 5:17771 | DOI: 10.1038/srep17771
and D =  0.05 ±  0.01 meV. This confirms that the system is dominated by strong antiferromagnetic inter-
actions along the chains, with weak coupling between them. The single-ion anisotropy is also consistent 
with our proposed spin structure with spins confined along the Jahn-Teller distorted c-axis. The large 
ratio Jintrachain/Jinterchain is consistent with the 1D-correlations observed above T N in both neutron scatter-
ing and magnetic susceptibility. Furthermore, the effective interaction determined from magnetic sus-
ceptibility is in remarkable agreement with Jinterchain determined here.
Discussion
To understand the physics of this system it is instructive to return to the lattice. At high temperatures 
( >
T  1323 K), ZnMn2O4 is a cubic spinel with magnetic sites forming a network of corner sharing tetra-
hedra such that all antiferromagnetic interactions between nearest neighbors are equal and frustrated. At 
lower temperatures the Jahn-Teller transition drives a cubic-to-tetragonal structural phase transition 
thereby increasing the distance of the interplane spins relative to those of the intraplane spins by over 
7%. As the Mn-O octahedra are are connected by edges rather than corners, the dominant interactions 
will occur through direct exchange between the t g
2  orbitals of the Mn ions15, and should exhibit strong 
dependence on the Mn-Mn separation distance. The structural phase transition therefore acts to increase 
the strength of the interactions in the a-b plane and weaken those out of the plane, effectively relaxing 
the frustration of the lattice from equilateral to isosceles tetrahedral geometry. In this lowered symmetry 
the interplane interactions remain frustrated, as can be seen in Fig.  3a. The ferro-orbital ordering15 
resulting from the structural transition also contributes to the diminishing of interactions between the 
layers for the e g electrons.
Within each plane we find a large anisotropy in the strengths of the the interchain and intrachain cou-
plings. This can be understood from a simple examination of the crystal structure, as the non-magnetic 
Zn-O tetrahedral sites lie between the Mn-O octahedral sites such that the interchain interactions are 
mediated mediated by the substantially weaker super- and super-super exchange interactions. As a result, 
the high temperature magnetic susceptibility and correlations are dominated by the much stronger direct 
exchange interactions along the chains within each layer giving rise to the 1D like behavior at high 
temperatures.
As we have shown, the ratio 
/
J
J
interchain
intrachain ∼  0.02, and although small, is far larger than those 
found in more ideal 1D-chain systems12. This is sufficient to provide the necessary interaction between 
spins to generate 2D correlations in addition to the strong correlations along the chains. Long-range 
order in 2D, however, requires that there must be an anisotropy term which breaks the 3D rotational 
symmetry of the Heisenberg interaction18. In this system this is made possible by the uniaxial anisotropy 
along the c-axis produced by Jahn-Teller distortions. Together, this allows for 2D ordering of the lattice 
and suggests why the system remains two dimensional (with weak correlations along the c-axis) across 
such an extraordinarily large temperature range. The stabilization of two dimensional order has been 
observed in many other systems22–25, however, most either order with fully 3D structure at low enough 
temperature, or have chemical unit cells in which magnetic planes are vastly separated by non-magnetic 
layers. Thus, ZnMn2O4 presents a rare example of 2D ordering in a fully 3D crystal driven primarily by 
frustration.
In summary, we have studied the frustrated magnet ZnMn2O4 through bulk probes and neutron 
scattering. We have found that the interplay of orbital ordering and geometric frustration have given rise 
to a rare case of 2D ordering on the spinel lattice. The dynamical correlations unexpectedly retain low 
dimensionality over a wide temperature range, exhibiting an interesting series of dimensional crossovers 
from 1D to 2D within a 3D high symmetry lattice.
Methods
Powder samples were prepared using the standard solid state synthesis method. Large single crystals were 
grown using the flux method. Powder neutron measurements were performed on the DCS time of flight 
spectrometer and BT1 diffractometers at NIST. Single crystal measurements were performed on the BT2, 
BT7, and BT9 triple axis spectrometers at NIST and the SCD time of flight Laue diffractometer at IPNS. 
The SCD measurements clearly show the absence of a-c twins. Further measurements were performed 
on the HB-3 spectrometer at HFIR.
References
1.	 Ramirez, A. P. Handbook on magnetic materials. vol. 13 (Elsevier Science, Amsterdam, 2001).
2.	 Moessner, R. Magnets with strong geometric frustration. Can. J. Phys. 79, 1283 (2001).
3.	 Harris, M. J., Bramwell, S. T., McMorrow, D. F., Zeiske, T. & Godfrey, K. W. Geometrical frustration in the ferromagnetic 
pyrochlore Ho2Ti2O7. Phys. Rev. Lett. 79, 2554 (1997).
4.	 Local spin resonance and spin-peierls-like phase transition in a geometrically frustrated antiferromagnet. Phys. Rev. Lett 84, 3718 
(2000).
5.	 Lee, S.-H. et al. Emergent excitations in a geometrically frustrated magnet. Nature 418, 856 (2002).
6.	 Yamasaki, Y. et al. Magnetic reversal of the ferroelectric polarization in a multiferroic spinel oxide. Phys. Rev. Lett. 96, 207204 
(2006).
7.	 Vasil’ev, A. et al. Quasi-one-dimensional antiferromagnetic spinel compound LiCuVo4. Physica B 284 (2002).
8.	 Lee, S.-H. et al. Orbital and spin chains in ZnV2O4. Phys. Rev. Lett 93, 156407 (2004).
9.	 Wiebe, C. R. et al. 2d kagome ordering in the 3d frustrated spinel Li2Mn2O4. J. Phys. Cond. Matt. 17, 6469 (2005).


---
# Page 9

www.nature.com/scientificreports/
9
Scientific Reports | 5:17771 | DOI: 10.1038/srep17771
10.	 Onsager, L. Crystal statistics. i. a two-dimensional model with an order-disorder transition. Phys. Rev. 65, 117–148 (1944).
11.	 de Jongh, L. & Miedema, A. R. Experiments on simple magnetic model systems. Advances in Physics 23, 1 (1974).
12.	 de Jongh, L. Magnetic properties of layered transition metal compounds. vol. 9, 19 (Kluwer Academic Publishers, Massachusetts, 
1990).
13.	 Asbrink, S., Waskowska, A., Gerward, L., Olsen, J. S. & Talik, E. High pressure phase transition and properties of spinel 
Zn2Mn2O4. Phys. Rev. B 60, 12651 (1999).
14.	 Choi, H. C., Shim, J. H. & Min, B. I. Electronic structures and magnetic properties of spinel Zn2Mn2O4 under high pressure. 
Phys. Rev. B 74, 172103 (2006).
15.	 Mostovoy, M. & Khomskii, D. Orbital ordering in frustrated jahn-teller systems with 90 degrees exchange. Phys. Rev. Lett 89, 
227203 (2002).
16.	 Fisher, M. E. Magnetism in one-dimensional systems—the heisenberg model for infinite spin. Am. J. Phys. 32, 343 (1964).
17.	 Vrugt, J. A. et al. Accelerating markov chain monte carlo simulation by differential evolution with self-adaptive randomized 
subspace sampling. Int. J. Nonlinear Sci. Numer. Simul. 10, 273–290 (2009).
18.	 Mermin, N. D. & Wagner, H. Absence of ferromagnetism or antiferromagnetism in one- or two-dimensional isotropic heisenberg 
models. Phys. Rev. Lett. 17, 1133–1136.
19.	 Warren, B. X-ray diffraction in random layer lattices. Phys. Rev. 59, 693 (1941).
20.	 Kjems, J., Passel, L., Taub, H., Dash, J. & Novaco, A. Phys. Rev. B 13, 1446 (1976).
21.	 Shultz, A. J. et al. The upgraded ipns single crystal diffractometer. Physica B 385, 1059–1061 (2006).
22.	 Lynn, J. Two-dimensional behavior of the rare earth ordering in oxide superconductors. Journal of Alloys and Compounds 181, 
419 (1992).
23.	 Zhang, H., Lynn, J. & Morris, D. Coupled-bilayer two-dimensional magnetic order of the dy ions in Dy2Ba4Cu7O15. Phys. Rev. B 
45, 10022 (1992).
24.	 Hutchings, M., Ikeda, H. & Janke, E. Dynamic critical neutron scattering from a two-dimensional ising system RB2Cof4. Phys. 
Rev. Lett. 49, 386 (1982).
25.	 Thurlings, M., Frikkee, E. & de Wijn, H. Spin-wave analysis in the two-dimensional antiferromagnet K2FeF4. i. neutron scattering. 
Phys. Rev. B 25, 4750 (1982).
Acknowledgements
We acknowledge useful discussions with C. Broholm, I. Zaliznyak, and D.I. Khomskii. This work utilized 
facilities supported in part by the National Science Foundation under Agreement No. DMR-0454672. 
The work at Rutgers was supported by the DOE grant No. DE-FG02-07ER46382. Work at Argonne 
was supported by the US Department of Energy, BES-Materials Science, under Contract DE-AC02-
06CH11357.
Author Contributions
S.Y. and S.-W.C. synthesized materials and performed heat capacity and susceptibility measurements. 
W.R.II, Y.C., G.G., A.J.S., P.M.B.P., Y.Q. and Q.H. performed neutron scattering measurements. S.M.D. 
and W.R. analyzed the bulk and neutron data. All authors contributed to the manuscript.
Additional Information
Competing financial interests: The authors declare no competing financial interests.
How to cite this article: Disseler, S. M. et al. One Dimensional(1D)-to-2D Crossover of Spin 
Correlations in the 3D Magnet ZnMn 2 O 4 . Sci. Rep. 5, 17771; doi: 10.1038/srep17771 (2015).
This work is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License. The 
images or other third party material in this article are included in the article’s Creative Com-
mons license, unless indicated otherwise in the credit line; if the material is not included under the 
Creative Commons license, users will need to obtain permission from the license holder to reproduce 
the material. To view a copy of this license, visit http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/


---
